<title="THE FOX AND THE GRAPES">


A hungry Fox saw some fine bunches of Grapes hanging from a vine that
was trained along a high trellis, and did his best to reach them by
jumping as high as he could into the air. But it was all in vain, for
they were just out of reach: so he gave up trying, and walked away
with an air of dignity and unconcern, remarking, "I thought those
Grapes were ripe, but I see now they are quite sour."




<title="THE GOOSE THAT LAID THE GOLDEN EGGS">


A Man and his Wife had the good fortune to possess a Goose which laid
a Golden Egg every day. Lucky though they were, they soon began to
think they were not getting rich fast enough, and, imagining the bird
must be made of gold inside, they decided to kill it in order to
secure the whole store of precious metal at once. But when they cut it
open they found it was just like any other goose. Thus, they neither
got rich all at once, as they had hoped, nor enjoyed any longer the
daily addition to their wealth.

    Much wants more and loses all.




<title="THE CAT AND THE MICE">


There was once a house that was overrun with Mice. A Cat heard of
this, and said to herself, "That's the place for me," and off she went
and took up her quarters in the house, and caught the Mice one by one
and ate them. At last the Mice could stand it no longer, and they
determined to take to their holes and stay there. "That's awkward,"
said the Cat to herself: "the only thing to do is to coax them out by
a trick." So she considered a while, and then climbed up the wall and
let herself hang down by her hind legs from a peg, and pretended to
be dead. By and by a Mouse peeped out and saw the Cat hanging there.
"Aha!" it cried, "you're very clever, madam, no doubt: but you may
turn yourself into a bag of meal hanging there, if you like, yet you
won't catch us coming anywhere near you."

    If you are wise you won't be deceived by the innocent airs of
    those whom you have once found to be dangerous.




<title="THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG">


There was once a Dog who used to snap at people and bite them without
any provocation, and who was a great nuisance to every one who came to
his master's house. So his master fastened a bell round his neck to
warn people of his presence. The Dog was very proud of the bell, and
strutted about tinkling it with immense satisfaction. But an old dog
came up to him and said, "The fewer airs you give yourself the better,
my friend. You don't think, do you, that your bell was given you as a
reward of merit? On the contrary, it is a badge of disgrace."

    Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.




<title="THE CHARCOAL-BURNER AND THE FULLER">


There was once a Charcoal-burner who lived and worked by himself.
A Fuller, however, happened to come and settle in the same
neighbourhood; and the Charcoal-burner, having made his acquaintance
and finding he was an agreeable sort of fellow, asked him if he would
come and share his house: "We shall get to know one another better
that way," he said, "and, beside, our household expenses will be
diminished." The Fuller thanked him, but replied, "I couldn't think
of it, sir: why, everything I take such pains to whiten would be
blackened in no time by your charcoal."




<title="THE MICE IN COUNCIL">


Once upon a time all the Mice met together in Council, and discussed
the best means of securing themselves against the attacks of the cat.
After several suggestions had been debated, a Mouse of some standing
and experience got up and said, "I think I have hit upon a plan which
will ensure our safety in the future, provided you approve and carry
it out. It is that we should fasten a bell round the neck of our enemy
the cat, which will by its tinkling warn us of her approach." This
proposal was warmly applauded, and it had been already decided to
adopt it, when an old Mouse got upon his feet and said, "I agree with
you all that the plan before us is an admirable one: but may I ask who
is going to bell the cat?"




<title="THE BAT AND THE WEASELS">


A Bat fell to the ground and was caught by a Weasel, and was just
going to be killed and eaten when it begged to be let go. The Weasel
said he couldn't do that because he was an enemy of all birds on
principle. "Oh, but," said the Bat, "I'm not a bird at all: I'm a
mouse." "So you are," said the Weasel, "now I come to look at you";
and he let it go. Some time after this the Bat was caught in just the
same way by another Weasel, and, as before, begged for its life. "No,"
said the Weasel, "I never let a mouse go by any chance." "But I'm not
a mouse," said the Bat; "I'm a bird." "Why, so you are," said the
Weasel; and he too let the Bat go.

    Look and see which way the wind blows before you commit yourself.




<title="THE DOG AND THE SOW">


A Dog and a Sow were arguing and each claimed that its own young ones
were finer than those of any other animal. "Well," said the Sow at
last, "mine can see, at any rate, when they come into the world: but
yours are born blind."




<title="THE FOX AND THE CROW">


A Crow was sitting on a branch of a tree with a piece of cheese in her
beak when a Fox observed her and set his wits to work to discover
some way of getting the cheese. Coming and standing under the tree he
looked up and said, "What a noble bird I see above me! Her beauty is
without equal, the hue of her plumage exquisite. If only her voice is
as sweet as her looks are fair, she ought without doubt to be Queen of
the Birds." The Crow was hugely flattered by this, and just to show
the Fox that she could sing she gave a loud caw. Down came the cheese,
of course, and the Fox, snatching it up, said, "You have a voice,
madam, I see: what you want is wits."




<title="THE HORSE AND THE GROOM">


There was once a Groom who used to spend long hours clipping and
combing the Horse of which he had charge, but who daily stole a
portion of his allowance of oats, and sold it for his own profit. The
Horse gradually got into worse and worse condition, and at last cried
to the Groom, "If you really want me to look sleek and well, you must
comb me less and feed me more."




<title="THE WOLF AND THE LAMB">


A Wolf came upon a Lamb straying from the flock, and felt some
compunction about taking the life of so helpless a creature without
some plausible excuse; so he cast about for a grievance and said
at last, "Last year, sirrah, you grossly insulted me." "That is
impossible, sir," bleated the Lamb, "for I wasn't born then." "Well,"
retorted the Wolf, "you feed in my pastures." "That cannot be,"
replied the Lamb, "for I have never yet tasted grass." "You drink from
my spring, then," continued the Wolf. "Indeed, sir," said the poor
Lamb, "I have never yet drunk anything but my mother's milk." "Well,
anyhow," said the Wolf, "I'm not going without my dinner": and he
sprang upon the Lamb and devoured it without more ado.




<title="THE PEACOCK AND THE CRANE">


A Peacock taunted a Crane with the dullness of her plumage. "Look at
my brilliant colours," said she, "and see how much finer they are than
your poor feathers." "I am not denying," replied the Crane, "that
yours are far gayer than mine; but when it comes to flying I can
soar into the clouds, whereas you are confined to the earth like any
dunghill cock."




<title="THE CAT AND THE BIRDS">


A Cat heard that the Birds in an aviary were ailing. So he got himself
up as a doctor, and, taking with him a set of the instruments proper
to his profession, presented himself at the door, and inquired after
the health of the Birds. "We shall do very well," they replied,
without letting him in, "when we've seen the last of you."

    A villain may disguise himself, but he will not deceive the wise.




<title="THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW">


A Spendthrift, who had wasted his fortune, and had nothing left but
the clothes in which he stood, saw a Swallow one fine day in early
spring. Thinking that summer had come, and that he could now do
without his coat, he went and sold it for what it would fetch. A
change, however, took place in the weather, and there came a sharp
frost which killed the unfortunate Swallow. When the Spendthrift saw
its dead body he cried, "Miserable bird! Thanks to you I am perishing
of cold myself."

    One swallow does not make summer.




<title="THE OLD WOMAN AND THE DOCTOR">


An Old Woman became almost totally blind from a disease of the eyes,
and, after consulting a Doctor, made an agreement with him in the
presence of witnesses that she should pay him a high fee if he
cured her, while if he failed he was to receive nothing. The Doctor
accordingly prescribed a course of treatment, and every time he paid
her a visit he took away with him some article out of the house, until
at last, when he visited her for the last time, and the cure was
complete, there was nothing left. When the Old Woman saw that the
house was empty she refused to pay him his fee; and, after repeated
refusals on her part, he sued her before the magistrates for payment
of her debt. On being brought into court she was ready with her
defence. "The claimant," said she, "has stated the facts about our
agreement correctly. I undertook to pay him a fee if he cured me, and
he, on his part, promised to charge nothing if he failed. Now, he says
I am cured; but I say that I am blinder than ever, and I can prove
what I say. When my eyes were bad I could at any rate see well enough
to be aware that my house contained a certain amount of furniture and
other things; but now, when according to him I am cured, I am entirely
unable to see anything there at all."




<title="THE MOON AND HER MOTHER">


The Moon once begged her Mother to make her a gown. "How can I?"
replied she; "there's no fitting your figure. At one time you're a New
Moon, and at another you're a Full Moon; and between whiles you're
neither one nor the other."




<title="MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN">


A Woodman was felling a tree on the bank of a river, when his axe,
glancing off the trunk, flew out of his hands and fell into the water.
As he stood by the water's edge lamenting his loss, Mercury appeared
and asked him the reason for his grief; and on learning what had
happened, out of pity for his distress he dived into the river and,
bringing up a golden axe, asked him if that was the one he had lost.
The Woodman replied that it was not, and Mercury then dived a second
time, and, bringing up a silver axe, asked if that was his. "No, that
is not mine either," said the Woodman. Once more Mercury dived into
the river, and brought up the missing axe. The Woodman was overjoyed
at recovering his property, and thanked his benefactor warmly; and the
latter was so pleased with his honesty that he made him a present of
the other two axes. When the Woodman told the story to his companions,
one of these was filled with envy of his good fortune and determined
to try his luck for himself. So he went and began to fell a tree at
the edge of the river, and presently contrived to let his axe drop
into the water. Mercury appeared as before, and, on learning that his
axe had fallen in, he dived and brought up a golden axe, as he had
done on the previous occasion. Without waiting to be asked whether
it was his or not the fellow cried, "That's mine, that's mine," and
stretched out his hand eagerly for the prize: but Mercury was so
disgusted at his dishonesty that he not only declined to give him the
golden axe, but also refused to recover for him the one he had let
fall into the stream.

    Honesty is the best policy.




<title="THE ASS, THE FOX, AND THE LION">


An Ass and a Fox went into partnership and sallied out to forage for
food together. They hadn't gone far before they saw a Lion coming
their way, at which they were both dreadfully frightened. But the Fox
thought he saw a way of saving his own skin, and went boldly up to the
Lion and whispered in his ear, "I'll manage that you shall get hold of
the Ass without the trouble of stalking him, if you'll promise to let
me go free." The Lion agreed to this, and the Fox then rejoined his
companion and contrived before long to lead him by a hidden pit, which
some hunter had dug as a trap for wild animals, and into which he
fell. When the Lion saw that the Ass was safely caught and couldn't
get away, it was to the Fox that he first turned his attention, and he
soon finished him off, and then at his leisure proceeded to feast upon
the Ass.

    Betray a friend, and you'll often find you have ruined yourself.




<title="THE LION AND THE MOUSE">


A Lion asleep in his lair was waked up by a Mouse running over his
face. Losing his temper he seized it with his paw and was about to
kill it. The Mouse, terrified, piteously entreated him to spare its
life. "Please let me go," it cried, "and one day I will repay you for
your kindness." The idea of so insignificant a creature ever being
able to do anything for him amused the Lion so much that he laughed
aloud, and good-humouredly let it go. But the Mouse's chance came,
after all. One day the Lion got entangled in a net which had been
spread for game by some hunters, and the Mouse heard and recognised
his roars of anger and ran to the spot. Without more ado it set to
work to gnaw the ropes with its teeth, and succeeded before long in
setting the Lion free. "There!" said the Mouse, "you laughed at me
when I promised I would repay you: but now you see, even a Mouse can
help a Lion."




<title="THE CROW AND THE PITCHER">


A thirsty Crow found a Pitcher with some water in it, but so little
was there that, try as she might, she could not reach it with her
beak, and it seemed as though she would die of thirst within sight of
the remedy. At last she hit upon a clever plan. She began dropping
pebbles into the Pitcher, and with each pebble the water rose a little
higher until at last it reached the brim, and the knowing bird was
enabled to quench her thirst.

    Necessity is the mother of invention.




<title="THE BOYS AND THE FROGS">


Some mischievous Boys were playing on the edge of a pond, and,
catching sight of some Frogs swimming about in the shallow water, they
began to amuse themselves by pelting them with stones, and they killed
several of them. At last one of the Frogs put his head out of the
water and said, "Oh, stop! stop! I beg of you: what is sport to you is
death to us."




<title="THE NORTH WIND AND THE SUN">


A dispute arose between the North Wind and the Sun, each claiming
that he was stronger than the other. At last they agreed to try their
powers upon a traveller, to see which could soonest strip him of his
cloak. The North Wind had the first try; and, gathering up all his
force for the attack, he came whirling furiously down upon the man,
and caught up his cloak as though he would wrest it from him by one
single effort: but the harder he blew, the more closely the man
wrapped it round himself. Then came the turn of the Sun. At first he
beamed gently upon the traveller, who soon unclasped his cloak and
walked on with it hanging loosely about his shoulders: then he shone
forth in his full strength, and the man, before he had gone many
steps, was glad to throw his cloak right off and complete his journey
more lightly clad.

    Persuasion is better than force




<title="THE MISTRESS AND HER SERVANTS">


A Widow, thrifty and industrious, had two servants, whom she kept
pretty hard at work. They were not allowed to lie long abed in the
mornings, but the old lady had them up and doing as soon as the cock
crew. They disliked intensely having to get up at such an hour,
especially in winter-time: and they thought that if it were not for
the cock waking up their Mistress so horribly early, they could
sleep longer. So they caught it and wrung its neck. But they weren't
prepared for the consequences. For what happened was that their
Mistress, not hearing the cock crow as usual, waked them up earlier
than ever, and set them to work in the middle of the night.




<title="THE GOODS AND THE ILLS">


There was a time in the youth of the world when Goods and Ills entered
equally into the concerns of men, so that the Goods did not prevail
to make them altogether blessed, nor the Ills to make them wholly
miserable. But owing to the foolishness of mankind the Ills multiplied
greatly in number and increased in strength, until it seemed as though
they would deprive the Goods of all share in human affairs, and banish
them from the earth. The latter, therefore, betook themselves to
heaven and complained to Jupiter of the treatment they had received,
at the same time praying him to grant them protection from the Ills,
and to advise them concerning the manner of their intercourse with
men. Jupiter granted their request for protection, and decreed that
for the future they should not go among men openly in a body, and so
be liable to attack from the hostile Ills, but singly and unobserved,
and at infrequent and unexpected intervals. Hence it is that the earth
is full of Ills, for they come and go as they please and are never far
away; while Goods, alas! come one by one only, and have to travel all
the way from heaven, so that they are very seldom seen.




<title="THE HARES AND THE FROGS">


The Hares once gathered together and lamented the unhappiness of their
lot, exposed as they were to dangers on all sides and lacking the
strength and the courage to hold their own. Men, dogs, birds and
beasts of prey were all their enemies, and killed and devoured them
daily: and sooner than endure such persecution any longer, they one
and all determined to end their miserable lives. Thus resolved
and desperate, they rushed in a body towards a neighbouring pool,
intending to drown themselves. On the bank were sitting a number of
Frogs, who, when they heard the noise of the Hares as they ran, with
one accord leaped into the water and hid themselves in the depths.
Then one of the older Hares who was wiser than the rest cried out to
his companions, "Stop, my friends, take heart; don't let us destroy
ourselves after all: see, here are creatures who are afraid of us, and
who must, therefore, be still more timid than ourselves."




<title="THE FOX AND THE STORK">


A Fox invited a Stork to dinner, at which the only fare provided was a
large flat dish of soup. The Fox lapped it up with great relish, but
the Stork with her long bill tried in vain to partake of the savoury
broth. Her evident distress caused the sly Fox much amusement. But not
long after the Stork invited him in turn, and set before him a pitcher
with a long and narrow neck, into which she could get her bill with
ease. Thus, while she enjoyed her dinner, the Fox sat by hungry and
helpless, for it was impossible for him to reach the tempting contents
of the vessel.




<title="THE WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING">


A Wolf resolved to disguise himself in order that he might prey upon a
flock of sheep without fear of detection. So he clothed himself in a
sheepskin, and slipped among the sheep when they were out at pasture.
He completely deceived the shepherd, and when the flock was penned
for the night he was shut in with the rest. But that very night as it
happened, the shepherd, requiring a supply of mutton for the table,
laid hands on the Wolf in mistake for a Sheep, and killed him with his
knife on the spot.




<title="THE STAG IN THE OX-STALL">


A Stag, chased from his lair by the hounds, took refuge in a farmyard,
and, entering a stable where a number of oxen were stalled, thrust
himself under a pile of hay in a vacant stall, where he lay concealed,
all but the tips of his horns. Presently one of the Oxen said to him,
"What has induced you to come in here? Aren't you aware of the risk
you are running of being captured by the herdsmen?" To which he
replied, "Pray let me stay for the present. When night comes I shall
easily escape under cover of the dark." In the course of the afternoon
more than one of the farm-hands came in, to attend to the wants of
the cattle, but not one of them noticed the presence of the Stag, who
accordingly began to congratulate himself on his escape and to express
his gratitude to the Oxen. "We wish you well," said the one who had
spoken before, "but you are not out of danger yet. If the master
comes, you will certainly be found out, for nothing ever escapes his
keen eyes." Presently, sure enough, in he came, and made a great to-do
about the way the Oxen were kept. "The beasts are starving," he cried;
"here, give them more hay, and put plenty of litter under them." As he
spoke, he seized an armful himself from the pile where the Stag lay
concealed, and at once detected him. Calling his men, he had him
seized at once and killed for the table.




<title="THE MILKMAID AND HER PAIL">


A farmer's daughter had been out to milk the cows, and was returning
to the dairy carrying her pail of milk upon her head. As she walked
along, she fell a-musing after this fashion: "The milk in this pail
will provide me with cream, which I will make into butter and take to
market to sell. With the money I will buy a number of eggs, and these,
when hatched, will produce chickens, and by and by I shall have quite
a large poultry-yard. Then I shall sell some of my fowls, and with the
money which they will bring in I will buy myself a new gown, which
I shall wear when I go to the fair; and all the young fellows will
admire it, and come and make love to me, but I shall toss my head
and have nothing to say to them." Forgetting all about the pail, and
suiting the action to the word, she tossed her head. Down went the
pail, all the milk was spilled, and all her fine castles in the air
vanished in a moment!

    Do not count your chickens before they are hatched.




<title="THE DOLPHINS, THE WHALES, AND THE SPRAT">


The Dolphins quarrelled with the Whales, and before very long they
began fighting with one another. The battle was very fierce, and had
lasted some time without any sign of coming to an end, when a Sprat
thought that perhaps he could stop it; so he stepped in and tried to
persuade them to give up fighting and make friends. But one of the
Dolphins said to him contemptuously, "We would rather go on fighting
till we're all killed than be reconciled by a Sprat like you!"




<title="THE FOX AND THE MONKEY">


A Fox and a Monkey were on the road together, and fell into a dispute
as to which of the two was the better born. They kept it up for some
time, till they came to a place where the road passed through a
cemetery full of monuments, when the Monkey stopped and looked about
him and gave a great sigh. "Why do you sigh?" said the Fox. The Monkey
pointed to the tombs and replied, "All the monuments that you see here
were put up in honour of my forefathers, who in their day were eminent
men." The Fox was speechless for a moment, but quickly recovering he
said, "Oh! don't stop at any lie, sir; you're quite safe: I'm sure
none of your ancestors will rise up and expose you."

    Boasters brag most when they cannot be detected.




<title="THE ASS AND THE LAP-DOG">


There was once a man who had an Ass and a Lap-dog. The Ass was housed
in the stable with plenty of oats and hay to eat and was as well off
as an ass could be. The little Dog was made a great pet of by his
master, who fondled him and often let him lie in his lap; and if he
went out to dinner, he would bring back a tit-bit or two to give him
when he ran to meet him on his return. The Ass had, it is true, a good
deal of work to do, carting or grinding the corn, or carrying the
burdens of the farm: and ere long he became very jealous, contrasting
his own life of labour with the ease and idleness of the Lap-dog. At
last one day he broke his halter, and frisking into the house just as
his master sat down to dinner, he pranced and capered about, mimicking
the frolics of the little favourite, upsetting the table and smashing
the crockery with his clumsy efforts. Not content with that, he even
tried to jump on his master's lap, as he had so often seen the dog
allowed to do. At that the servants, seeing the danger their master
was in, belaboured the silly Ass with sticks and cudgels, and drove
him back to his stable half dead with his beating. "Alas!" he cried,
"all this I have brought on myself. Why could I not be satisfied with
my natural and honourable position, without wishing to imitate the
ridiculous antics of that useless little Lap-dog?"




<title="THE FIR-TREE AND THE BRAMBLE">


A Fir-tree was boasting to a Bramble, and said, somewhat
contemptuously, "You poor creature, you are of no use whatever. Now,
look at me: I am useful for all sorts of things, particularly when men
build houses; they can't do without me then." But the Bramble replied,
"Ah, that's all very well: but you wait till they come with axes and
saws to cut you down, and then you'll wish you were a Bramble and not
a Fir."

    Better poverty without a care than wealth with its many
    obligations.




<title="THE FROGS' COMPLAINT AGAINST THE SUN">


Once upon a time the Sun was about to take to himself a wife. The
Frogs in terror all raised their voices to the skies, and Jupiter,
disturbed by the noise, asked them what they were croaking about. They
replied, "The Sun is bad enough even while he is single, drying up our
marshes with his heat as he does. But what will become of us if he
marries and begets other Suns?"




<title="THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX">


A Dog and a Cock became great friends, and agreed to travel together.
At nightfall the Cock flew up into the branches of a tree to roost,
while the Dog curled himself up inside the trunk, which was hollow. At
break of day the Cock woke up and crew, as usual. A Fox heard, and,
wishing to make a breakfast of him, came and stood under the tree and
begged him to come down. "I should so like," said he, "to make the
acquaintance of one who has such a beautiful voice." The Cock replied,
"Would you just wake my porter who sleeps at the foot of the tree?
He'll open the door and let you in." The Fox accordingly rapped on the
trunk, when out rushed the Dog and tore him in pieces.




<title="THE GNAT AND THE BULL">


A Gnat alighted on one of the horns of a Bull, and remained sitting
there for a considerable time. When it had rested sufficiently and was
about to fly away, it said to the Bull, "Do you mind if I go now?" The
Bull merely raised his eyes and remarked, without interest, "It's all
one to me; I didn't notice when you came, and I shan't know when you
go away."

    We may often be of more consequence in our own eyes than in the
    eyes of our neighbours.




<title="THE BEAR AND THE TRAVELLERS">


Two Travellers were on the road together, when a Bear suddenly
appeared on the scene. Before he observed them, one made for a tree at
the side of the road, and climbed up into the branches and hid there.
The other was not so nimble as his companion; and, as he could not
escape, he threw himself on the ground and pretended to be dead. The
Bear came up and sniffed all round him, but he kept perfectly still
and held his breath: for they say that a bear will not touch a dead
body. The Bear took him for a corpse, and went away. When the coast
was clear, the Traveller in the tree came down, and asked the other
what it was the Bear had whispered to him when he put his mouth to
his ear. The other replied, "He told me never again to travel with a
friend who deserts you at the first sign of danger."

    Misfortune tests the sincerity of friendship.




<title="THE SLAVE AND THE LION">


A Slave ran away from his master, by whom he had been most cruelly
treated, and, in order to avoid capture, betook himself into the
desert. As he wandered about in search of food and shelter, he came to
a cave, which he entered and found to be unoccupied. Really, however,
it was a Lion's den, and almost immediately, to the horror of the
wretched fugitive, the Lion himself appeared. The man gave himself
up for lost: but, to his utter astonishment, the Lion, instead of
springing upon him and devouring him, came and fawned upon him, at
the same time whining and lifting up his paw. Observing it to be much
swollen and inflamed, he examined it and found a large thorn embedded
in the ball of the foot. He accordingly removed it and dressed
the wound as well as he could: and in course of time it healed up
completely. The Lion's gratitude was unbounded; he looked upon the man
as his friend, and they shared the cave for some time together. A day
came, however, when the Slave began to long for the society of his
fellow-men, and he bade farewell to the Lion and returned to the town.
Here he was presently recognised and carried off in chains to his
former master, who resolved to make an example of him, and ordered
that he should be thrown to the beasts at the next public spectacle in
the theatre. On the fatal day the beasts were loosed into the arena,
and among the rest a Lion of huge bulk and ferocious aspect; and then
the wretched Slave was cast in among them. What was the amazement of
the spectators, when the Lion after one glance bounded up to him and
lay down at his feet with every expression of affection and delight!
It was his old friend of the cave! The audience clamoured that
the Slave's life should be spared: and the governor of the town,
marvelling at such gratitude and fidelity in a beast, decreed that
both should receive their liberty.




<title="THE FLEA AND THE MAN">


A Flea bit a Man, and bit him again, and again, till he could stand it
no longer, but made a thorough search for it, and at last succeeded
in catching it. Holding it between his finger and thumb, he said--or
rather shouted, so angry was he--"Who are you, pray, you wretched
little creature, that you make so free with my person?" The Flea,
terrified, whimpered in a weak little voice, "Oh, sir! pray let me
go; don't kill me! I am such a little thing that I can't do you much
harm." But the Man laughed and said, "I am going to kill you now, at
once: whatever is bad has got to be destroyed, no matter how slight
the harm it does."

    Do not waste your pity on a scamp.




<title="THE BEE AND JUPITER">


A Queen Bee from Hymettus flew up to Olympus with some fresh honey
from the hive as a present to Jupiter, who was so pleased with the
gift that he promised to give her anything she liked to ask for. She
said she would be very grateful if he would give stings to the bees,
to kill people who robbed them of their honey. Jupiter was greatly
displeased with this request, for he loved mankind: but he had given
his word, so he said that stings they should have. The stings he gave
them, however, were of such a kind that whenever a bee stings a man
the sting is left in the wound and the bee dies.

    Evil wishes, like fowls, come home to roost.




<title="THE OAK AND THE REEDS">


An Oak that grew on the bank of a river was uprooted by a severe
gale of wind, and thrown across the stream. It fell among some Reeds
growing by the water, and said to them, "How is it that you, who are
so frail and slender, have managed to weather the storm, whereas I,
with all my strength, have been torn up by the roots and hurled into
the river?" "You were stubborn," came the reply, "and fought against
the storm, which proved stronger than you: but we bow and yield to
every breeze, and thus the gale passed harmlessly over our heads."




<title="THE BLIND MAN AND THE CUB">


There was once a Blind Man who had so fine a sense of touch that, when
any animal was put into his hands, he could tell what it was merely by
the feel of it. One day the Cub of a Wolf was put into his hands, and
he was asked what it was. He felt it for some time, and then said,
"Indeed, I am not sure whether it is a Wolf's Cub or a Fox's: but this
I know--it would never do to trust it in a sheepfold."

    Evil tendencies are early shown.




<title="THE BOY AND THE SNAILS">


A Farmer's Boy went looking for Snails, and, when he had picked up
both his hands full, he set about making a fire at which to roast
them; for he meant to eat them. When it got well alight and the Snails
began to feel the heat, they gradually withdrew more and more into
their shells with the hissing noise they always make when they do so.
When the Boy heard it, he said, "You abandoned creatures, how can you
find heart to whistle when your houses are burning?"




<title="THE APES AND THE TWO TRAVELLERS">


Two men were travelling together, one of whom never spoke the truth,
whereas the other never told a lie: and they came in the course of
their travels to the land of Apes. The King of the Apes, hearing of
their arrival, ordered them to be brought before him; and by way of
impressing them with his magnificence, he received them sitting on
a throne, while the Apes, his subjects, were ranged in long rows on
either side of him. When the Travellers came into his presence he
asked them what they thought of him as a King. The lying Traveller
said, "Sire, every one must see that you are a most noble and mighty
monarch." "And what do you think of my subjects?" continued the King.
"They," said the Traveller, "are in every way worthy of their royal
master." The Ape was so delighted with his answer that he gave him
a very handsome present. The other Traveller thought that if his
companion was rewarded so splendidly for telling a lie, he himself
would certainly receive a still greater reward for telling the truth;
so, when the Ape turned to him and said, "And what, sir, is your
opinion?" he replied, "I think you are a very fine Ape, and all your
subjects are fine Apes too." The King of the Apes was so enraged at
his reply that he ordered him to be taken away and clawed to death.




<title="THE ASS AND HIS BURDENS">


A Pedlar who owned an Ass one day bought a quantity of salt, and
loaded up his beast with as much as he could bear. On the way home the
Ass stumbled as he was crossing a stream and fell into the water. The
salt got thoroughly wetted and much of it melted and drained away, so
that, when he got on his legs again, the Ass found his load had become
much less heavy. His master, however, drove him back to town and
bought more salt, which he added to what remained in the panniers, and
started out again. No sooner had they reached a stream than the Ass
lay down in it, and rose, as before, with a much lighter load. But his
master detected the trick, and turning back once more, bought a large
number of sponges, and piled them on the back of the Ass. When they
came to the stream the Ass again lay down: but this time, as the
sponges soaked up large quantities of water, he found, when he got up
on his legs, that he had a bigger burden to carry than ever.

    You may play a good card once too often.




<title="THE SHEPHERD'S BOY AND THE WOLF">


A Shepherd's Boy was tending his flock near a village, and thought it
would be great fun to hoax the villagers by pretending that a Wolf was
attacking the sheep: so he shouted out, "Wolf! wolf!" and when the
people came running up he laughed at them for their pains. He did
this more than once, and every time the villagers found they had been
hoaxed, for there was no Wolf at all. At last a Wolf really did come,
and the Boy cried, "Wolf! wolf!" as loud as he could: but the people
were so used to hearing him call that they took no notice of his cries
for help. And so the Wolf had it all his own way, and killed off sheep
after sheep at his leisure.

    You cannot believe a liar even when he tells the truth.




<title="THE FOX AND THE GOAT">


A Fox fell into a well and was unable to get out again. By and by a
thirsty Goat came by, and seeing the Fox in the well asked him if the
water was good. "Good?" said the Fox, "it's the best water I ever
tasted in all my life. Come down and try it yourself." The Goat
thought of nothing but the prospect of quenching his thirst, and
jumped in at once. When he had had enough to drink, he looked about,
like the Fox, for some way of getting out, but could find none.
Presently the Fox said, "I have an idea. You stand on your hind legs,
and plant your forelegs firmly against the side of the well, and then
I'll climb on to your back, and, from there, by stepping on your
horns, I can get out. And when I'm out, I'll help you out too." The
Goat did as he was requested, and the Fox climbed on to his back and
so out of the well; and then he coolly walked away. The Goat called
loudly after him and reminded him of his promise to help him out: but
the Fox merely turned and said, "If you had as much sense in your head
as you have hair in your beard you wouldn't have got into the well
without making certain that you could get out again."

    Look before your leap.




<title="THE FISHERMAN AND THE SPRAT">


A Fisherman cast his net into the sea, and when he drew it up again it
contained nothing but a single Sprat that begged to be put back into
the water. "I'm only a little fish now," it said, "but I shall grow
big one day, and then if you come and catch me again I shall be of
some use to you." But the Fisherman replied, "Oh, no, I shall keep you
now I've got you: if I put you back, should I ever see you again? Not
likely!"




<title="THE BOASTING TRAVELLER">


A Man once went abroad on his travels, and when he came home he
had wonderful tales to tell of the things he had done in foreign
countries. Among other things, he said he had taken part in a
jumping-match at Rhodes, and had done a wonderful jump which no one
could beat. "Just go to Rhodes and ask them," he said; "every one will
tell you it's true." But one of those who were listening said, "If you
can jump as well as all that, we needn't go to Rhodes to prove it.
Let's just imagine this is Rhodes for a minute: and now--jump!"

    Deeds, not words.




<title="THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER">


An Old Crab said to her son, "Why do you walk sideways like that, my
son? You ought to walk straight." The Young Crab replied, "Show me
how, dear mother, and I'll follow your example." The Old Crab tried,
but tried in vain, and then saw how foolish she had been to find fault
with her child.

    Example is better than precept.




<title="THE ASS AND HIS SHADOW">


A certain man hired an Ass for a journey in summertime, and started
out with the owner following behind to drive the beast. By and by, in
the heat of the day, they stopped to rest, and the traveller wanted to
lie down in the Ass's Shadow; but the owner, who himself wished to be
out of the sun, wouldn't let him do that; for he said he had hired the
Ass only, and not his Shadow: the other maintained that his bargain
secured him complete control of the Ass for the time being. From words
they came to blows; and while they were belabouring each other the Ass
took to his heels and was soon out of sight.




<title="THE FARMER AND HIS SONS">


A Farmer, being at death's door, and desiring to impart to his Sons a
secret of much moment, called them round him and said, "My sons, I am
shortly about to die; I would have you know, therefore, that in my
vineyard there lies a hidden treasure. Dig, and you will find it." As
soon as their father was dead, the Sons took spade and fork and turned
up the soil of the vineyard over and over again, in their search for
the treasure which they supposed to lie buried there. They found none,
however: but the vines, after so thorough a digging, produced a crop
such as had never before been seen.




<title="THE DOG AND THE COOK">


A rich man once invited a number of his friends and acquaintances to
a banquet. His dog thought it would be a good opportunity to invite
another Dog, a friend of his; so he went to him and said, "My master
is giving a feast: there'll be a fine spread, so come and dine with me
to-night." The Dog thus invited came, and when he saw the preparations
being made in the kitchen he said to himself, "My word, I'm in luck:
I'll take care to eat enough to-night to last me two or three days."
At the same time he wagged his tail briskly, by way of showing his
friend how delighted he was to have been asked. But just then the Cook
caught sight of him, and, in his annoyance at seeing a strange Dog in
the kitchen, caught him up by the hind legs and threw him out of the
window. He had a nasty fall, and limped away as quickly as he could,
howling dismally. Presently some other dogs met him, and said, "Well,
what sort of a dinner did you get?" To which he replied, "I had a
splendid time: the wine was so good, and I drank so much of it, that I
really don't remember how I got out of the house!"

    Be shy of favours bestowed at the expense of others.




<title="THE MONKEY AS KING">


At a gathering of all the animals the Monkey danced and delighted them
so much that they made him their King. The Fox, however, was very much
disgusted at the promotion of the Monkey: so having one day found a
trap with a piece of meat in it, he took the Monkey there and said to
him, "Here is a dainty morsel I have found, sire; I did not take it
myself, because I thought it ought to be reserved for you, our King.
Will you be pleased to accept it?" The Monkey made at once for the
meat and got caught in the trap. Then he bitterly reproached the Fox
for leading him into danger; but the Fox only laughed and said, "O
Monkey, you call yourself King of the Beasts and haven't more sense
than to be taken in like that!"




<title="THE THIEVES AND THE COCK">


Some Thieves broke into a house, and found nothing worth taking except
a Cock, which they seized and carried off with them. When they were
preparing their supper, one of them caught up the Cock, and was about
to wring his neck, when he cried out for mercy and said, "Pray do not
kill me: you will find me a most useful bird, for I rouse honest men
to their work in the morning by my crowing." But the Thief replied
with some heat, "Yes, I know you do, making it still harder for us to
get a livelihood. Into the pot you go!"




<title="THE FARMER AND FORTUNE">


A Farmer was ploughing one day on his farm when he turned up a pot of
golden coins with his plough. He was overjoyed at his discovery, and
from that time forth made an offering daily at the shrine of the
Goddess of the Earth. Fortune was displeased at this, and came to him
and said, "My man, why do you give Earth the credit for the gift which
I bestowed upon you? You never thought of thanking me for your good
luck; but should you be unlucky enough to lose what you have gained
I know very well that I, Fortune, should then come in for all the
blame."

    Show gratitude where gratitude is due.




<title="JUPITER AND THE MONKEY">


Jupiter issued a proclamation to all the beasts, and offered a
prize to the one who, in his judgment, produced the most beautiful
offspring. Among the rest came the Monkey, carrying a baby monkey in
her arms, a hairless, flat-nosed little fright. When they saw it, the
gods all burst into peal on peal of laughter; but the Monkey hugged
her little one to her, and said, "Jupiter may give the prize to
whomsoever he likes: but I shall always think my baby the most
beautiful of them all."




<title="FATHER AND SONS">


A certain man had several Sons who were always quarrelling with one
another, and, try as he might, he could not get them to live together
in harmony. So he determined to convince them of their folly by the
following means. Bidding them fetch a bundle of sticks, he invited
each in turn to break it across his knee. All tried and all failed:
and then he undid the bundle, and handed them the sticks one by one,
when they had no difficulty at all in breaking them. "There, my boys,"
said he, "united you will be more than a match for your enemies: but
if you quarrel and separate, your weakness will put you at the mercy
of those who attack you."

    Union is strength.




<title="THE LAMP">


A Lamp, well filled with oil, burned with a clear and steady light,
and began to swell with pride and boast that it shone more brightly
than the sun himself. Just then a puff of wind came and blew it out.
Some one struck a match and lit it again, and said, "You just keep
alight, and never mind the sun. Why, even the stars never need to be
relit as you had to be just now."




<title="THE OWL AND THE BIRDS">


The Owl is a very wise bird; and once, long ago, when the first oak
sprouted in the forest, she called all the other Birds together and
said to them, "You see this tiny tree? If you take my advice, you will
destroy it now when it is small: for when it grows big, the mistletoe
will appear upon it, from which birdlime will be prepared for your
destruction." Again, when the first flax was sown, she said to them,
"Go and eat up that seed, for it is the seed of the flax, out of which
men will one day make nets to catch you." Once more, when she saw the
first archer, she warned the Birds that he was their deadly enemy, who
would wing his arrows with their own feathers and shoot them. But they
took no notice of what she said: in fact, they thought she was rather
mad, and laughed at her. When, however, everything turned out as she
had foretold, they changed their minds and conceived a great respect
for her wisdom. Hence, whenever she appears, the Birds attend upon
her in the hope of hearing something that may be for their good. She,
however, gives them advice no longer, but sits moping and pondering on
the folly of her kind.




<title="THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN">


An Ass found a Lion's Skin, and dressed himself up in it. Then he went
about frightening every one he met, for they all took him to be a
lion, men and beasts alike, and took to their heels when they saw
him coming. Elated by the success of his trick, he loudly brayed in
triumph. The Fox heard him, and recognised him at once for the Ass he
was, and said to him, "Oho, my friend, it's you, is it? I, too, should
have been afraid if I hadn't heard your voice."




<title="THE SHE-GOATS AND THEIR BEARDS">


Jupiter granted beards to the She-Goats at their own request, much
to the disgust of the he-Goats, who considered this to be an
unwarrantable invasion of their rights and dignities. So they sent a
deputation to him to protest against his action. He, however, advised
them not to raise any objections. "What's in a tuft of hair?" said he.
"Let them have it if they want it. They can never be a match for you
in strength."




<title="THE OLD LION">


A Lion, enfeebled by age and no longer able to procure food for
himself by force, determined to do so by cunning. Betaking himself to
a cave, he lay down inside and feigned to be sick: and whenever any of
the other animals entered to inquire after his health, he sprang upon
them and devoured them. Many lost their lives in this way, till one
day a Fox called at the cave, and, having a suspicion of the truth,
addressed the Lion from outside instead of going in, and asked him how
he did. He replied that he was in a very bad way: "But," said he, "why
do you stand outside? Pray come in." "I should have done so," answered
the Fox, "if I hadn't noticed that all the footprints point towards
the cave and none the other way."




<title="THE BOY BATHING">


A Boy was bathing in a river and got out of his depth, and was in
great danger of being drowned. A man who was passing along a road
heard his cries for help, and went to the riverside and began to scold
him for being so careless as to get into deep water, but made no
attempt to help him. "Oh, sir," cried the Boy, "please help me first
and scold me afterwards."

    Give assistance, not advice, in a crisis.




<title="THE QUACK FROG">


Once upon a time a Frog came forth from his home in the marshes and
proclaimed to all the world that he was a learned physician, skilled
in drugs and able to cure all diseases. Among the crowd was a Fox, who
called out, "You a doctor! Why, how can you set up to heal others when
you cannot even cure your own lame legs and blotched and wrinkled
skin?"

    Physician, heal thyself.




<title="THE SWOLLEN FOX">


A hungry Fox found in a hollow tree a quantity of bread and meat,
which some shepherds had placed there against their return. Delighted
with his find he slipped in through the narrow aperture and greedily
devoured it all. But when he tried to get out again he found himself
so swollen after his big meal that he could not squeeze through the
hole, and fell to whining and groaning over his misfortune. Another
Fox, happening to pass that way, came and asked him what the matter
was; and, on learning the state of the case, said, "Well, my friend, I
see nothing for it but for you to stay where you are till you shrink
to your former size; you'll get out then easily enough."




<title="THE MOUSE, THE FROG, AND THE HAWK">


A Mouse and a Frog struck up a friendship; they were not well mated,
for the Mouse lived entirely on land, while the Frog was equally
at home on land or in the water. In order that they might never be
separated, the Frog tied himself and the Mouse together by the leg
with a piece of thread. As long as they kept on dry land all went
fairly well; but, coming to the edge of a pool, the Frog jumped in,
taking the Mouse with him, and began swimming about and croaking with
pleasure. The unhappy Mouse, however, was soon drowned, and floated
about on the surface in the wake of the Frog. There he was spied by a
Hawk, who pounced down on him and seized him in his talons. The Frog
was unable to loose the knot which bound him to the Mouse, and thus
was carried off along with him and eaten by the Hawk.




<title="THE BOY AND THE NETTLES">


A Boy was gathering berries from a hedge when his hand was stung by a
Nettle. Smarting with the pain, he ran to tell his mother, and said
to her between his sobs, "I only touched it ever so lightly, mother."
"That's just why you got stung, my son," she said; "if you had grasped
it firmly, it wouldn't have hurt you in the least."




<title="THE PEASANT AND THE APPLE-TREE">


A Peasant had an Apple-tree growing in his garden, which bore no
fruit, but merely served to provide a shelter from the heat for the
sparrows and grasshoppers which sat and chirped in its branches.
Disappointed at its barrenness he determined to cut it down, and went
and fetched his axe for the purpose. But when the sparrows and the
grasshoppers saw what he was about to do, they begged him to spare
it, and said to him, "If you destroy the tree we shall have to seek
shelter elsewhere, and you will no longer have our merry chirping to
enliven your work in the garden." He, however, refused to listen to
them, and set to work with a will to cut through the trunk. A few
strokes showed that it was hollow inside and contained a swarm of bees
and a large store of honey. Delighted with his find he threw down his
axe, saying, "The old tree is worth keeping after all."

    Utility is most men's test of worth.




<title="THE JACKDAW AND THE PIGEONS">


A Jackdaw, watching some Pigeons in a farmyard, was filled with envy
when he saw how well they were fed, and determined to disguise himself
as one of them, in order to secure a share of the good things they
enjoyed. So he painted himself white from head to foot and joined the
flock; and, so long as he was silent, they never suspected that he
was not a pigeon like themselves. But one day he was unwise enough
to start chattering, when they at once saw through his disguise and
pecked him so unmercifully that he was glad to escape and join his own
kind again. But the other jackdaws did not recognise him in his white
dress, and would not let him feed with them, but drove him away: and
so he became a homeless wanderer for his pains.




<title="JUPITER AND THE TORTOISE">


Jupiter was about to marry a wife, and determined to celebrate the
event by inviting all the animals to a banquet. They all came except
the Tortoise, who did not put in an appearance, much to Jupiter's
surprise. So when he next saw the Tortoise he asked him why he had not
been at the banquet. "I don't care for going out," said the Tortoise;
"there's no place like home." Jupiter was so much annoyed by this
reply that he decreed that from that time forth the Tortoise should
carry his house upon his back, and never be able to get away from home
even if he wished to.




<title="THE DOG IN THE MANGER">


A Dog was lying in a Manger on the hay which had been put there for
the cattle, and when they came and tried to eat, he growled and
snapped at them and wouldn't let them get at their food. "What a
selfish beast," said one of them to his companions; "he can't eat
himself and yet he won't let those eat who can."




<title="THE TWO BAGS">


Every man carries Two Bags about with him, one in front and one
behind, and both are packed full of faults. The Bag in front contains
his neighbours' faults, the one behind his own. Hence it is that men
do not see their own faults, but never fail to see those of others.




<title="THE OXEN AND THE AXLETREES">


A pair of Oxen were drawing a heavily loaded waggon along the highway,
and, as they tugged and strained at the yoke, the Axletrees creaked
and groaned terribly. This was too much for the Oxen, who turned round
indignantly and said, "Hullo, you there! Why do you make such a noise
when we do all the work?"

    They complain most who suffer least.




<title="THE BOY AND THE FILBERTS">


A Boy put his hand into a jar of Filberts, and grasped as many as his
fist could possibly hold. But when he tried to pull it out again, he
found he couldn't do so, for the neck of the jar was too small to
allow of the passage of so large a handful. Unwilling to lose his nuts
but unable to withdraw his hand, he burst into tears. A bystander, who
saw where the trouble lay, said to him, "Come, my boy, don't be so
greedy: be content with half the amount, and you'll be able to get
your hand out without difficulty."

    Do not attempt too much at once.




<title="THE FROGS ASKING FOR A KING">


Time was when the Frogs were discontented because they had no one to
rule over them: so they sent a deputation to Jupiter to ask him to
give them a King. Jupiter, despising the folly of their request, cast
a log into the pool where they lived, and said that that should be
their King. The Frogs were terrified at first by the splash, and
scuttled away into the deepest parts of the pool; but by and by, when
they saw that the log remained motionless, one by one they ventured to
the surface again, and before long, growing bolder, they began to feel
such contempt for it that they even took to sitting upon it. Thinking
that a King of that sort was an insult to their dignity, they sent to
Jupiter a second time, and begged him to take away the sluggish King
he had given them, and to give them another and a better one. Jupiter,
annoyed at being pestered in this way, sent a Stork to rule over them,
who no sooner arrived among them than he began to catch and eat the
Frogs as fast as he could.




<title="THE OLIVE-TREE AND THE FIG-TREE">


An Olive-tree taunted a Fig-tree with the loss of her leaves at a
certain season of the year. "You," she said, "lose your leaves every
autumn, and are bare till the spring: whereas I, as you see, remain
green and flourishing all the year round." Soon afterwards there came
a heavy fall of snow, which settled on the leaves of the Olive so that
she bent and broke under the weight; but the flakes fell harmlessly
through the bare branches of the Fig, which survived to bear many
another crop.




<title="THE LION AND THE BOAR">


One hot and thirsty day in the height of summer a Lion and a Boar came
down to a little spring at the same moment to drink. In a trice they
were quarrelling as to who should drink first. The quarrel soon became
a fight and they attacked one another with the utmost fury. Presently,
stopping for a moment to take breath, they saw some vultures seated on
a rock above evidently waiting for one of them to be killed, when they
would fly down and feed upon the carcase. The sight sobered them at
once, and they made up their quarrel, saying, "We had much better be
friends than fight and be eaten by vultures."




<title="THE WALNUT-TREE">


A Walnut-tree, which grew by the roadside, bore every year a plentiful
crop of nuts. Every one who passed by pelted its branches with sticks
and stones, in order to bring down the fruit, and the tree suffered
severely. "It is hard," it cried, "that the very persons who enjoy my
fruit should thus reward me with insults and blows."




<title="THE MAN AND THE LION">


A Man and a Lion were companions on a journey, and in the course of
conversation they began to boast about their prowess, and each claimed
to be superior to the other in strength and courage. They were still
arguing with some heat when they came to a cross-road where there
was a statue of a Man strangling a Lion. "There!" said the Man
triumphantly, "look at that! Doesn't that prove to you that we are
stronger than you?" "Not so fast, my friend," said the Lion: "that is
only your view of the case. If we Lions could make statues, you may be
sure that in most of them you would see the Man underneath."

    There are two sides to every question.




<title="THE TORTOISE AND THE EAGLE">


A Tortoise, discontented with his lowly life, and envious of the birds
he saw disporting themselves in the air, begged an Eagle to teach him
to fly. The Eagle protested that it was idle for him to try, as nature
had not provided him with wings; but the Tortoise pressed him with
entreaties and promises of treasure, insisting that it could only be
a question of learning the craft of the air. So at length the Eagle
consented to do the best he could for him, and picked him up in his
talons. Soaring with him to a great height in the sky he then let him
go, and the wretched Tortoise fell headlong and was dashed to pieces
on a rock.




<title="THE KID ON THE HOUSETOP">


A Kid climbed up on to the roof of an outhouse, attracted by the
grass and other things that grew in the thatch; and as he stood there
browsing away, he caught sight of a Wolf passing below, and jeered at
him because he couldn't reach him. The Wolf only looked up and said,
"I hear you, my young friend; but it is not you who mock me, but the
roof on which you are standing."




<title="THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL">


A fox once fell into a trap, and after a struggle managed to get free,
but with the loss of his brush. He was then so much ashamed of his
appearance that he thought life was not worth living unless he could
persuade the other Foxes to part with their tails also, and thus
divert attention from his own loss. So he called a meeting of all the
Foxes, and advised them to cut off their tails: "They're ugly things
anyhow," he said, "and besides they're heavy, and it's tiresome to be
always carrying them about with you." But one of the other Foxes said,
"My friend, if you hadn't lost your own tail, you wouldn't be so keen
on getting us to cut off ours."




<title="THE VAIN JACKDAW">


Jupiter announced that he intended to appoint a king over the birds,
and named a day on which they were to appear before his throne, when
he would select the most beautiful of them all to be their ruler.
Wishing to look their best on the occasion they repaired to the banks
of a stream, where they busied themselves in washing and preening
their feathers. The Jackdaw was there along with the rest, and
realised that, with his ugly plumage, he would have no chance of being
chosen as he was: so he waited till they were all gone, and then
picked up the most gaudy of the feathers they had dropped, and
fastened them about his own body, with the result that he looked gayer
than any of them. When the appointed day came, the birds assembled
before Jupiter's throne; and, after passing them in review, he was
about to make the Jackdaw king, when all the rest set upon the
king-elect, stripped him of his borrowed plumes, and exposed him for
the Jackdaw that he was.




<title="THE TRAVELLER AND HIS DOG">


A Traveller was about to start on a journey, and said to his Dog, who
was stretching himself by the door, "Come, what are you yawning for?
Hurry up and get ready: I mean you to go with me." But the Dog merely
wagged his tail and said quietly, "I'm ready, master: it's you I'm
waiting for."




<title="THE SHIPWRECKED MAN AND THE SEA">


A Shipwrecked Man cast up on the beach fell asleep after his struggle
with the waves. When he woke up, he bitterly reproached the Sea for
its treachery in enticing men with its smooth and smiling surface,
and then, when they were well embarked, turning in fury upon them and
sending both ship and sailors to destruction. The Sea arose in the
form of a woman, and replied, "Lay not the blame on me, O sailor, but
on the Winds. By nature I am as calm and safe as the land itself: but
the Winds fall upon me with their gusts and gales, and lash me into a
fury that is not natural to me."




<title="THE WILD BOAR AND THE FOX">


A Wild Boar was engaged in whetting his tusks upon the trunk of a tree
in the forest when a Fox came by and, seeing what he was at, said to
him, "Why are you doing that, pray? The huntsmen are not out to-day,
and there are no other dangers at hand that I can see." "True, my
friend," replied the Boar, "but the instant my life is in danger I
shall need to use my tusks. There'll be no time to sharpen them then."




<title="MERCURY AND THE SCULPTOR">


Mercury was very anxious to know in what estimation he was held by
mankind; so he disguised himself as a man and walked into a Sculptor's
studio, where there were a number of statues finished and ready for
sale. Seeing a statue of Jupiter among the rest, he inquired the price
of it. "A crown," said the Sculptor. "Is that all?" said he, laughing;
"and" (pointing to one of Juno) "how much is that one?" "That," was
the reply, "is half a crown." "And how much might you be wanting for
that one over there, now?" he continued, pointing to a statue of
himself. "That one?" said the Sculptor; "Oh, I'll throw him in for
nothing if you'll buy the other two."




<title="THE FAWN AND HIS MOTHER">


A Hind said to her Fawn, who was now well grown and strong, "My son,
Nature has given you a powerful body and a stout pair of horns, and I
can't think why you are such a coward as to run away from the hounds."
Just then they both heard the sound of a pack in full cry, but at a
considerable distance. "You stay where you are," said the Hind; "never
mind me": and with that she ran off as fast as her legs could carry
her.




<title="THE FOX AND THE LION">


A Fox who had never seen a Lion one day met one, and was so terrified
at the sight of him that he was ready to die with fear. After a time
he met him again, and was still rather frightened, but not nearly so
much as he had been when he met him first. But when he saw him for the
third time he was so far from being afraid that he went up to him and
began to talk to him as if he had known him all his life.




<title="THE EAGLE AND HIS CAPTOR">


A Man once caught an Eagle, and after clipping his wings turned him
loose among the fowls in his hen-house, where he moped in a corner,
looking very dejected and forlorn. After a while his Captor was glad
enough to sell him to a neighbour, who took him home and let his wings
grow again. As soon as he had recovered the use of them, the Eagle
flew out and caught a hare, which he brought home and presented to his
benefactor. A fox observed this, and said to the Eagle, "Don't waste
your gifts on him! Go and give them to the man who first caught you;
make _him_ your friend, and then perhaps he won't catch you and clip
your wings a second time."




<title="THE BLACKSMITH AND HIS DOG">


A Blacksmith had a little Dog, which used to sleep when his master was
at work, but was very wide awake indeed when it was time for meals.
One day his master pretended to be disgusted at this, and when he had
thrown him a bone as usual, he said, "What on earth is the good of a
lazy cur like you? When I am hammering away at my anvil, you just curl
up and go to sleep: but no sooner do I stop for a mouthful of food
than you wake up and wag your tail to be fed."

    Those who will not work deserve to starve.




<title="THE STAG AT THE POOL">


A thirsty Stag went down to a pool to drink. As he bent over the
surface he saw his own reflection in the water, and was struck with
admiration for his fine spreading antlers, but at the same time he
felt nothing but disgust for the weakness and slenderness of his legs.
While he stood there looking at himself, he was seen and attacked by
a Lion; but in the chase which ensued, he soon drew away from his
pursuer, and kept his lead as long as the ground over which he ran was
open and free of trees. But coming presently to a wood, he was caught
by his antlers in the branches, and fell a victim to the teeth and
claws of his enemy. "Woe is me!" he cried with his last breath; "I
despised my legs, which might have saved my life: but I gloried in my
horns, and they have proved my ruin."

    What is worth most is often valued least.




<title="THE DOG AND THE SHADOW">


A Dog was crossing a plank bridge over a stream with a piece of meat
in his mouth, when he happened to see his own reflection in the water.
He thought it was another dog with a piece of meat twice as big; so
he let go his own, and flew at the other dog to get the larger piece.
But, of course, all that happened was that he got neither; for one was
only a shadow, and the other was carried away by the current.




<title="MERCURY AND THE TRADESMEN">


When Jupiter was creating man, he told Mercury to make an infusion of
lies, and to add a little of it to the other ingredients which went to
the making of the Tradesmen. Mercury did so, and introduced an equal
amount into each in turn--the tallow-chandler, and the greengrocer,
and the haberdasher, and all, till he came to the horse-dealer, who
was last on the list, when, finding that he had a quantity of the
infusion still left, he put it all into him. This is why all Tradesmen
lie more or less, but they none of them lie like a horse-dealer.




<title="THE MICE AND THE WEASELS">


There was war between the Mice and the Weasels, in which the Mice
always got the worst of it, numbers of them being killed and eaten by
the Weasels. So they called a council of war, in which an old Mouse
got up and said, "It's no wonder we are always beaten, for we have no
generals to plan our battles and direct our movements in the field."
Acting on his advice, they chose the biggest Mice to be their leaders,
and these, in order to be distinguished from the rank and file,
provided themselves with helmets bearing large plumes of straw. They
then led out the Mice to battle, confident of victory: but they were
defeated as usual, and were soon scampering as fast as they could to
their holes. All made their way to safety without difficulty except
the leaders, who were so hampered by the badges of their rank that
they could not get into their holes, and fell easy victims to their
pursuers.

    Greatness carries its own penalties.




<title="THE PEACOCK AND JUNO">


The Peacock was greatly discontented because he had not a beautiful
voice like the nightingale, and he went and complained to Juno about
it. "The nightingale's song," said he, "is the envy of all the birds;
but whenever I utter a sound I become a laughing-stock." The goddess
tried to console him by saying, "You have not, it is true, the power
of song, but then you far excel all the rest in beauty: your neck
flashes like the emerald and your splendid tail is a marvel of
gorgeous colour." But the Peacock was not appeased. "What is the use,"
said he, "of being beautiful, with a voice like mine?" Then Juno
replied, with a shade of sternness in her tones, "Fate has allotted to
all their destined gifts: to yourself beauty, to the eagle strength,
to the nightingale song, and so on to all the rest in their degree;
but you alone are dissatisfied with your portion. Make, then, no more
complaints. For, if your present wish were granted, you would quickly
find cause for fresh discontent."




<title="THE BEAR AND THE FOX">


A Bear was once bragging about his generous feelings, and saying how
refined he was compared with other animals. (There is, in fact, a
tradition that a Bear will never touch a dead body.) A Fox, who heard
him talking in this strain, smiled and said, "My friend, when you are
hungry, I only wish you _would_ confine your attention to the dead and
leave the living alone."

    A hypocrite deceives no one but himself.




<title="THE ASS AND THE OLD PEASANT">


An old Peasant was sitting in a meadow watching his Ass, which was
grazing close by, when all of a sudden he caught sight of armed men
stealthily approaching. He jumped up in a moment, and begged the Ass
to fly with him as fast as he could, "Or else," said he, "we shall
both be captured by the enemy." But the Ass just looked round lazily
and said, "And if so, do you think they'll make me carry heavier loads
than I have to now?" "No," said his master. "Oh, well, then," said the
Ass, "I don't mind if they do take me, for I shan't be any worse off."




<title="THE OX AND THE FROG">


Two little Frogs were playing about at the edge of a pool when an Ox
came down to the water to drink, and by accident trod on one of them
and crushed the life out of him. When the old Frog missed him, she
asked his brother where he was. "He is dead, mother," said the little
Frog; "an enormous big creature with four legs came to our pool this
morning and trampled him down in the mud." "Enormous, was he? Was he
as big as this?" said the Frog, puffing herself out to look as big
as possible. "Oh! yes, _much_ bigger," was the answer. The Frog puffed
herself out still more. "Was he as big as this?" said she. "Oh! yes,
yes, mother, _MUCH_ bigger," said the little Frog. And yet again she
puffed and puffed herself out till she was almost as round as a ball.
"As big as...?" she began--but then she burst.




<title="THE MAN AND THE IMAGE">


A poor Man had a wooden Image of a god, to which he used to pray daily
for riches. He did this for a long time, but remained as poor as ever,
till one day he caught up the Image in disgust and hurled it with all
his strength against the wall. The force of the blow split open the
head and a quantity of gold coins fell out upon the floor. The Man
gathered them up greedily, and said, "O you old fraud, you! When I
honoured you, you did me no good whatever: but no sooner do I treat
you to insults and violence than you make a rich man of me!"




<title="HERCULES AND THE WAGGONER">


A Waggoner was driving his team along a muddy lane with a full load
behind them, when the wheels of his waggon sank so deep in the mire
that no efforts of his horses could move them. As he stood there,
looking helplessly on, and calling loudly at intervals upon Hercules
for assistance, the god himself appeared, and said to him, "Put your
shoulder to the wheel, man, and goad on your horses, and then you may
call on Hercules to assist you. If you won't lift a finger to help
yourself, you can't expect Hercules or any one else to come to your
aid."

    Heaven helps those who help themselves.




<title="THE POMEGRANATE, THE APPLE-TREE, AND THE BRAMBLE">


A Pomegranate and an Apple-tree were disputing about the quality of
their fruits, and each claimed that its own was the better of the two.
High words passed between them, and a violent quarrel was imminent,
when a Bramble impudently poked its head out of a neighbouring hedge
and said, "There, that's enough, my friends; don't let us quarrel."




<title="THE LION, THE BEAR, AND THE FOX">


A Lion and a Bear were fighting for possession of a kid, which they
had both seized at the same moment. The battle was long and fierce,
and at length both of them were exhausted, and lay upon the ground
severely wounded and gasping for breath. A Fox had all the time been
prowling round and watching the fight: and when he saw the combatants
lying there too weak to move, he slipped in and seized the kid, and
ran off with it. They looked on helplessly, and one said to the other,
"Here we've been mauling each other all this while, and no one the
better for it except the Fox!"




<title="THE BLACKAMOOR">


A Man once bought an Ethiopian slave, who had a black skin like all
Ethiopians; but his new master thought his colour was due to his
late owner's having neglected him, and that all he wanted was a good
scrubbing. So he set to work with plenty of soap and hot water, and
rubbed away at him with a will, but all to no purpose: his skin
remained as black as ever, while the poor wretch all but died from the
cold he caught.




<title="THE TWO SOLDIERS AND THE ROBBER">


Two Soldiers travelling together were set upon by a Robber. One of
them ran away, but the other stood his ground, and laid about him so
lustily with his sword that the Robber was fain to fly and leave
him in peace. When the coast was clear the timid one ran back, and,
flourishing his weapon, cried in a threatening voice, "Where is he?
Let me get at him, and I'll soon let him know whom he's got to deal
with." But the other replied, "You are a little late, my friend: I
only wish you had backed me up just now, even if you had done no more
than speak, for I should have been encouraged, believing your words to
be true. As it is, calm yourself, and put up your sword: there is no
further use for it. You may delude others into thinking you're as
brave as a lion: but I know that, at the first sign of danger, you run
away like a hare."




<title="THE LION AND THE WILD ASS">


A Lion and a Wild Ass went out hunting together: the latter was to run
down the prey by his superior speed, and the former would then come
up and despatch it. They met with great success; and when it came to
sharing the spoil the Lion divided it all into three equal portions.
"I will take the first," said he, "because I am King of the beasts; I
will also take the second, because, as your partner, I am entitled to
half of what remains; and as for the third--well, unless you give it
up to me and take yourself off pretty quick, the third, believe me,
will make you feel very sorry for yourself!"

    Might makes right.




<title="THE MAN AND THE SATYR">


A Man and a Satyr became friends, and determined to live together. All
went well for a while, until one day in winter-time the Satyr saw the
Man blowing on his hands. "Why do you do that?" he asked. "To warm
my hands," said the Man. That same day, when they sat down to supper
together, they each had a steaming hot bowl of porridge, and the Man
raised his bowl to his mouth and blew on it. "Why do you do that?"
asked the Satyr. "To cool my porridge," said the Man. The Satyr got up
from the table. "Good-bye," said he, "I'm going: I can't be friends
with a man who blows hot and cold with the same breath."




<title="THE IMAGE-SELLER">


A certain man made a wooden Image of Mercury, and exposed it for sale
in the market. As no one offered to buy it, however, he thought he
would try to attract a purchaser by proclaiming the virtues of the
Image. So he cried up and down the market, "A god for sale! a god for
sale! One who'll bring you luck and keep you lucky!" Presently one of
the bystanders stopped him and said, "If your god is all you make
him out to be, how is it you don't keep him and make the most of him
yourself?" "I'll tell you why," replied he; "he brings gain, it is
true, but he takes his time about it; whereas I want money at once."




<title="THE EAGLE AND THE ARROW">


An Eagle sat perched on a lofty rock, keeping a sharp look-out for
prey. A huntsman, concealed in a cleft of the mountain and on the
watch for game, spied him there and shot an Arrow at him. The shaft
struck him full in the breast and pierced him through and through. As
he lay in the agonies of death, he turned his eyes upon the Arrow.
"Ah! cruel fate!" he cried, "that I should perish thus: but oh! fate
more cruel still, that the Arrow which kills me should be winged with
an Eagle's feathers!"




<title="THE RICH MAN AND THE TANNER">


A Rich Man took up his residence next door to a Tanner, and found the
smell of the tan-yard so extremely unpleasant that he told him he must
go. The Tanner delayed his departure, and the Rich Man had to speak
to him several times about it; and every time the Tanner said he was
making arrangements to move very shortly. This went on for some time,
till at last the Rich Man got so used to the smell that he ceased to
mind it, and troubled the Tanner with his objections no more.




<title="THE WOLF, THE MOTHER, AND HER CHILD">


A hungry Wolf was prowling about in search of food. By and by,
attracted by the cries of a Child, he came to a cottage. As he
crouched beneath the window, he heard the Mother say to the Child,
"Stop crying, do! or I'll throw you to the Wolf." Thinking she really
meant what she said, he waited there a long time in the expectation of
satisfying his hunger. In the evening he heard the Mother fondling her
Child and saying, "If the naughty Wolf comes, he shan't get my little
one: Daddy will kill him." The Wolf got up in much disgust and walked
away: "As for the people in that house," said he to himself, "you
can't believe a word they say."




<title="THE OLD WOMAN AND THE WINE-JAR">


An old Woman picked up an empty Wine-jar which had once contained a
rare and costly wine, and which still retained some traces of its
exquisite bouquet. She raised it to her nose and sniffed at it again
and again. "Ah," she cried, "how delicious must have been the liquid
which has left behind so ravishing a smell."




<title="THE LIONESS AND THE VIXEN">


A Lioness and a Vixen were talking together about their young, as
mothers will, and saying how healthy and well-grown they were, and
what beautiful coats they had, and how they were the image of their
parents. "My litter of cubs is a joy to see," said the Fox; and then
she added, rather maliciously, "But I notice you never have more than
one." "No," said the Lioness grimly, "but that one's a lion."

    Quality, not quantity.




<title="THE VIPER AND THE FILE">


A Viper entered a carpenter's shop, and went from one to another of
the tools, begging for something to eat. Among the rest, he addressed
himself to the File, and asked for the favour of a meal. The File
replied in a tone of pitying contempt, "What a simpleton you must be
if you imagine you will get anything from me, who invariably take from
every one and never give anything in return."

    The covetous are poor givers.




<title="THE CAT AND THE COCK">


A Cat pounced on a Cock, and cast about for some good excuse for
making a meal off him, for Cats don't as a rule eat Cocks, and she
knew she ought not to. At last she said, "You make a great nuisance of
yourself at night by crowing and keeping people awake: so I am going
to make an end of you." But the Cock defended himself by saying that
he crowed in order that men might wake up and set about the day's work
in good time, and that they really couldn't very well do without him.
"That may be," said the Cat, "but whether they can or not, I'm not
going without my dinner"; and she killed and ate him.

    The want of a good excuse never kept a villain from crime.




<title="THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE">


A Hare was one day making fun of a Tortoise for being so slow upon his
feet. "Wait a bit," said the Tortoise; "I'll run a race with you, and
I'll wager that I win." "Oh, well," replied the Hare, who was much
amused at the idea, "let's try and see"; and it was soon agreed that
the fox should set a course for them, and be the judge. When the time
came both started off together, but the Hare was soon so far ahead
that he thought he might as well have a rest: so down he lay and fell
fast asleep. Meanwhile the Tortoise kept plodding on, and in time
reached the goal. At last the Hare woke up with a start, and dashed on
at his fastest, but only to find that the Tortoise had already won the
race.

    Slow and steady wins the race.




<title="THE SOLDIER AND HIS HORSE">


A Soldier gave his Horse a plentiful supply of oats in time of war,
and tended him with the utmost care, for he wished him to be strong to
endure the hardships of the field, and swift to bear his master, when
need arose, out of the reach of danger. But when the war was over he
employed him on all sorts of drudgery, bestowing but little attention
upon him, and giving him, moreover, nothing but chaff to eat. The time
came when war broke out again, and the Soldier saddled and bridled his
Horse, and, having put on his heavy coat of mail, mounted him to ride
off and take the field. But the poor half-starved beast sank down
under his weight, and said to his rider, "You will have to go into
battle on foot this time. Thanks to hard work and bad food, you have
turned me from a Horse into an ass; and you cannot in a moment turn me
back again into a Horse."




<title="THE OXEN AND THE BUTCHERS">


Once upon a time the Oxen determined to be revenged upon the Butchers
for the havoc they wrought in their ranks, and plotted to put them to
death on a given day. They were all gathered together discussing how
best to carry out the plan, and the more violent of them were engaged
in sharpening their horns for the fray, when an old Ox got up upon his
feet and said, "My brothers, you have good reason, I know, to hate
these Butchers, but, at any rate, they understand their trade and do
what they have to do without causing unnecessary pain. But if we kill
them, others, who have no experience, will be set to slaughter us, and
will by their bungling inflict great sufferings upon us. For you may
be sure that, even though all the Butchers perish, mankind will never
go without their beef."




<title="THE WOLF AND THE LION">


A wolf stole a lamb from the flock, and was carrying it off to devour
it at his leisure when he met a Lion, who took his prey away from him
and walked off with it. He dared not resist, but when the Lion had
gone some distance he said, "It is most unjust of you to take what's
mine away from me like that." The Lion laughed and called out in
reply, "It was justly yours, no doubt! The gift of a friend, perhaps,
eh?"




<title="THE SHEEP, THE WOLF, AND THE STAG">


A Stag once asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, saying that
his friend the Wolf would be his surety. The Sheep, however, was
afraid that they meant to cheat her; so she excused herself, saying,
"The Wolf is in the habit of seizing what he wants and running off
with it without paying, and you, too, can run much faster than I. So
how shall I be able to come up with either of you when the debt falls
due?"

    Two blacks do not make a white.




<title="THE LION AND THE THREE BULLS">


Three Bulls were grazing in a meadow, and were watched by a Lion, who
longed to capture and devour them, but who felt that he was no match
for the three so long as they kept together. So he began by false
whispers and malicious hints to foment jealousies and distrust among
them. This stratagem succeeded so well that ere long the Bulls grew
cold and unfriendly, and finally avoided each other and fed each one
by himself apart. No sooner did the Lion see this than he fell upon
them one by one and killed them in turn.

    The quarrels of friends are the opportunities of foes.




<title="THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER">


A Young Man, who fancied himself something of a horseman, mounted
a Horse which had not been properly broken in, and was exceedingly
difficult to control. No sooner did the Horse feel his weight in the
saddle than he bolted, and nothing would stop him. A friend of the
Rider's met him in the road in his headlong career, and called out,
"Where are you off to in such a hurry?" To which he, pointing to the
Horse, replied, "I've no idea: ask him."




<title="THE GOAT AND THE VINE">


A Goat was straying in a vineyard, and began to browse on the tender
shoots of a Vine which bore several fine bunches of grapes. "What have
I done to you," said the Vine, "that you should harm me thus? Isn't
there grass enough for you to feed on? All the same, even if you eat
up every leaf I have, and leave me quite bare, I shall produce
wine enough to pour over you when you are led to the altar to be
sacrificed."




<title="THE TWO POTS">


Two Pots, one of earthenware and the other of brass, were carried away
down a river in flood. The Brazen Pot urged his companion to keep
close by his side, and he would protect him. The other thanked him,
but begged him not to come near him on any account: "For that," he
said, "is just what I am most afraid of. One touch from you and I
should be broken in pieces."

    Equals make the best friends.




<title="THE OLD HOUND">


A Hound who had served his master well for years, and had run down
many a quarry in his time, began to lose his strength and speed owing
to age. One day, when out hunting, his master started a powerful wild
boar and set the Hound at him. The latter seized the beast by the ear,
but his teeth were gone and he could not retain his hold; so the
boar escaped. His master began to scold him severely, but the Hound
interrupted him with these words: "My will is as strong as ever,
master, but my body is old and feeble. You ought to honour me for what
I have been instead of abusing me for what I am."




<title="THE CLOWN AND THE COUNTRYMAN">


A Nobleman announced his intention of giving a public entertainment in
the theatre, and offered splendid prizes to all who had any novelty
to exhibit at the performance. The announcement attracted a crowd of
conjurers, jugglers, and acrobats, and among the rest a Clown, very
popular with the crowd, who let it be known that he was going to
give an entirely new turn. When the day of the performance came,
the theatre was filled from top to bottom some time before the
entertainment began. Several performers exhibited their tricks, and
then the popular favourite came on empty-handed and alone. At once
there was a hush of expectation: and he, letting his head fall upon
his breast, imitated the squeak of a pig to such perfection that the
audience insisted on his producing the animal, which, they said, he
must have somewhere concealed about his person. He, however, convinced
them that there was no pig there, and then the applause was deafening.
Among the spectators was a Countryman, who disparaged the Clown's
performance and announced that he would give a much superior
exhibition of the same trick on the following day. Again the theatre
was filled to overflowing, and again the Clown gave his imitation
amidst the cheers of the crowd. The Countryman, meanwhile, before
going on the stage, had secreted a young porker under his smock; and
when the spectators derisively bade him do better if he could, he gave
it a pinch in the ear and made it squeal loudly. But they all with one
voice shouted out that the Clown's imitation was much more true to
life. Thereupon he produced the pig from under his smock and said
sarcastically, "There, that shows what sort of judges you are!"




<title="THE LARK AND THE FARMER">


A Lark nested in a field of corn, and was rearing her brood under
cover of the ripening grain. One day, before the young were fully
fledged, the Farmer came to look at the crop, and, finding it
yellowing fast, he said, "I must send round word to my neighbours to
come and help me reap this field." One of the young Larks overheard
him, and was very much frightened, and asked her mother whether they
hadn't better move house at once. "There's no hurry," replied she;
"a man who looks to his friends for help will take his time about a
thing." In a few days the Farmer came by again, and saw that the grain
was overripe and falling out of the ears upon the ground. "I must put
it off no longer," he said; "This very day I'll hire the men and set
them to work at once." The Lark heard him and said to her young,
"Come, my children, we must be off: he talks no more of his friends
now, but is going to take things in hand himself."

    Self-help is the best help.




<title="THE LION AND THE ASS">


A Lion and an Ass set up as partners and went a-hunting together. In
course of time they came to a cave in which there were a number of
wild goats. The Lion took up his stand at the mouth of the cave, and
waited for them to come out; while the Ass went inside and brayed for
all he was worth in order to frighten them out into the open. The Lion
struck them down one by one as they appeared; and when the cave was
empty the Ass came out and said, "Well, I scared them pretty well,
didn't I?" "I should think you did," said the Lion: "why, if I hadn't
known you were an Ass, I should have turned and run myself."




<title="THE PROPHET">


A Prophet sat in the market-place and told the fortunes of all who
cared to engage his services. Suddenly there came running up one who
told him that his house had been broken into by thieves, and that they
had made off with everything they could lay hands on. He was up in a
moment, and rushed off, tearing his hair and calling down curses on
the miscreants. The bystanders were much amused, and one of them said,
"Our friend professes to know what is going to happen to others,
but it seems he's not clever enough to perceive what's in store for
himself."




<title="THE HOUND AND THE HARE">


A young Hound started a Hare, and, when he caught her up, would at one
moment snap at her with his teeth as though he were about to kill her,
while at another he would let go his hold and frisk about her, as if
he were playing with another dog. At last the Hare said, "I wish you
would show yourself in your true colours! If you are my friend, why do
you bite me? If you are my enemy, why do you play with me?"

    He is no friend who plays double.




<title="THE LION, THE MOUSE, AND THE FOX">


A Lion was lying asleep at the mouth of his den when a Mouse ran over
his back and tickled him so that he woke up with a start and began
looking about everywhere to see what it was that had disturbed him. A
Fox, who was looking on, thought he would have a joke at the expense
of the Lion; so he said, "Well, this is the first time I've seen a
Lion afraid of a Mouse." "Afraid of a Mouse?" said the Lion testily:
"not I! It's his bad manners I can't stand."




<title="THE TRUMPETER TAKEN PRISONER">


A Trumpeter marched into battle in the van of the army and put courage
into his comrades by his warlike tunes. Being captured by the enemy,
he begged for his life, and said, "Do not put me to death; I have
killed no one: indeed, I have no weapons, but carry with me only my
trumpet here." But his captors replied, "That is only the more reason
why we should take your life; for, though you do not fight yourself,
you stir up others to do so."




<title="THE WOLF AND THE CRANE">


A Wolf once got a bone stuck in his throat. So he went to a Crane and
begged her to put her long bill down his throat and pull it out. "I'll
make it worth your while," he added. The Crane did as she was asked,
and got the bone out quite easily. The Wolf thanked her warmly, and
was just turning away, when she cried, "What about that fee of mine?"
"Well, what about it?" snapped the Wolf, baring his teeth as he spoke;
"you can go about boasting that you once put your head into a Wolf's
mouth and didn't get it bitten off. What more do you want?"




<title="THE EAGLE, THE CAT, AND THE WILD SOW">


An Eagle built her nest at the top of a high tree; a Cat with her
family occupied a hollow in the trunk half-way down; and a Wild Sow
and her young took up their quarters at the foot. They might have got
on very well as neighbours had it not been for the evil cunning of the
Cat. Climbing up to the Eagle's nest she said to the Eagle, "You and I
are in the greatest possible danger. That dreadful creature, the Sow,
who is always to be seen grubbing away at the foot of the tree, means
to uproot it, that she may devour your family and mine at her ease."
Having thus driven the Eagle almost out of her senses with terror, the
Cat climbed down the tree, and said to the Sow, "I must warn you
against that dreadful bird, the Eagle. She is only waiting her chance
to fly down and carry off one of your little pigs when you take them
out, to feed her brood with." She succeeded in frightening the Sow as
much as the Eagle. Then she returned to her hole in the trunk, from
which, feigning to be afraid, she never came forth by day. Only by
night did she creep out unseen to procure food for her kittens. The
Eagle, meanwhile was afraid to stir from her nest, and the Sow dared
not leave her home among the roots: so that in time both they and
their families perished of hunger, and their dead bodies supplied the
Cat with ample food for her growing family.




<title="THE WOLF AND THE SHEEP">


A Wolf was worried and badly bitten by dogs, and lay a long time for
dead. By and by he began to revive, and, feeling very hungry, called
out to a passing Sheep and said, "Would you kindly bring me some water
from the stream close by? I can manage about meat, if only I could
get something to drink." But this Sheep was no fool. "I can quite
understand", said he, "that if I brought you the water, you would have
no difficulty about the meat. Good-morning."




<title="THE TUNNY-FISH AND THE DOLPHIN">


A Tunny-fish was chased by a Dolphin and splashed through the water at
a great rate, but the Dolphin gradually gained upon him, and was just
about to seize him when the force of his flight carried the Tunny on
to a sandbank. In the heat of the chase the Dolphin followed him, and
there they both lay out of the water, gasping for dear life. When the
Tunny saw that his enemy was doomed like himself, he said, "I don't
mind having to die now: for I see that he who is the cause of my death
is about to share the same fate."




<title="THE THREE TRADESMEN">


The citizens of a certain city were debating about the best material
to use in the fortifications which were about to be erected for the
greater security of the town. A Carpenter got up and advised the use
of wood, which he said was readily procurable and easily worked. A
Stone-mason objected to wood on the ground that it was so inflammable,
and recommended stones instead. Then a Tanner got on his legs and
said, "In my opinion there's nothing like leather."

    Every man for himself.




<title="THE MOUSE AND THE BULL">


A Bull gave chase to a Mouse which had bitten him in the nose: but the
Mouse was too quick for him and slipped into a hole in a wall. The
Bull charged furiously into the wall again and again until he was
tired out, and sank down on the ground exhausted with his efforts.
When all was quiet, the Mouse darted out and bit him again. Beside
himself with rage he started to his feet, but by that time the Mouse
was back in his hole again, and he could do nothing but bellow and
fume in helpless anger. Presently he heard a shrill little voice say
from inside the wall, "You big fellows don't always have it your own
way, you see: sometimes we little ones come off best."

    The battle is not always to the strong.




<title="THE HARE AND THE HOUND">


A Hound started a Hare from her form, and pursued her for some
distance; but as she gradually gained upon him, he gave up the chase.
A rustic who had seen the race met the Hound as he was returning, and
taunted him with his defeat. "The little one was too much for you,"
said he. "Ah, well," said the Hound, "don't forget it's one thing to
be running for your dinner, but quite another to be running for your
life."




<title="THE TOWN MOUSE AND THE COUNTRY MOUSE">


A Town Mouse and a Country Mouse were acquaintances, and the Country
Mouse one day invited his friend to come and see him at his home in
the fields. The Town Mouse came, and they sat down to a dinner of
barleycorns and roots, the latter of which had a distinctly earthy
flavour. The fare was not much to the taste of the guest, and
presently he broke out with "My poor dear friend, you live here no
better than the ants. Now, you should just see how I fare! My larder
is a regular horn of plenty. You must come and stay with me, and
I promise you you shall live on the fat of the land." So when he
returned to town he took the Country Mouse with him, and showed him
into a larder containing flour and oatmeal and figs and honey and
dates. The Country Mouse had never seen anything like it, and sat down
to enjoy the luxuries his friend provided: but before they had well
begun, the door of the larder opened and some one came in. The two
Mice scampered off and hid themselves in a narrow and exceedingly
uncomfortable hole. Presently, when all was quiet, they ventured out
again; but some one else came in, and off they scuttled again. This
was too much for the visitor. "Good-bye," said he, "I'm off. You live
in the lap of luxury, I can see, but you are surrounded by dangers;
whereas at home I can enjoy my simple dinner of roots and corn in
peace."




<title="THE LION AND THE BULL">


A Lion saw a fine fat Bull pasturing among a herd of cattle and cast
about for some means of getting him into his clutches; so he sent him
word that he was sacrificing a sheep, and asked if he would do him the
honour of dining with him. The Bull accepted the invitation, but, on
arriving at the Lion's den, he saw a great array of saucepans and
spits, but no sign of a sheep; so he turned on his heel and walked
quietly away. The Lion called after him in an injured tone to ask the
reason, and the Bull turned round and said, "I have reason enough.
When I saw all your preparations it struck me at once that the victim
was to be a Bull and not a sheep."

    The net is spread in vain in sight of the bird.




<title="THE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE">


A Wolf charged a Fox with theft, which he denied, and the case was
brought before an Ape to be tried. When he had heard the evidence on
both sides, the Ape gave judgment as follows: "I do not think," he
said, "that you, O Wolf, ever lost what you claim; but all the same I
believe that you, Fox, are guilty of the theft, in spite of all your
denials."

    The dishonest get no credit, even if they act honestly.




<title="THE EAGLE AND THE COCKS">


There were two Cocks in the same 