Harry Potter has been living an ordinary life, constantly abused by his surly and cold aunt and uncle, Vernon and Petunia Dursley and bullied by their spoiled son Dudley since the death of his parents ten years prior. His life changes on the day of his eleventh birthday when he receives a letter of acceptance into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, delivered by a half-giant named Rubeus Hagrid after previous letters had been destroyed by Vernon and Petunia. Hagrid details Harry's past as the son of James and Lily Potter, who were a wizard and witch respectively, and how they were murdered by the most evil and powerful dark wizard of all time, Lord Voldemort, which resulted in the one-year-old Harry being sent to live with his aunt and uncle. Voldemort was not only unable to kill Harry, but his powers were also destroyed in the attempt, forcing him into exile and sparking Harry's immense fame among the magical community.

Hagrid introduces Harry to the wizarding world by bringing him to Diagon Alley, a hidden street in London where Harry uncovers a fortune left to him by his parents at Gringotts Wizarding Bank, receives a pet owl, Hedwig, various school supplies, and a wand. There, he is surprised to discover how famous he truly is among witches and wizards. A month later, Harry leaves the Dursleys' home to catch the Hogwarts Express from King's Cross railway station's secret Hogwarts platform, Platform ​9 3⁄4. On the train, he quickly befriends fellow first-year Ronald Weasley and the two boys meet Hermione Granger, whose snobbiness and affinity for spells initially causes the two boys to dislike her. There, Harry also makes an enemy of yet another first-year, Draco Malfoy, who shows prejudice against Ron for his family's financial difficulties.

Arriving at Hogwarts, the first-years are assigned by the magical Sorting Hat to Houses that best suit their personalities, the four Houses being Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw. Harry hears from Ron about Slytherin's dark reputation which is known to house potential dark witches and wizards, and thus objects to being sorted into Slytherin despite the Hat claiming that Harry has potential to develop under that House. He winds up in Gryffindor with Ron and Hermione, while Draco is sorted into Slytherin like his family before him.

As classes begin at Hogwarts, Harry discovers his innate talent for flying on broomsticks despite no prior experience, and is recruited into his House's team for Quidditch (a competitive wizards' sport sharing similarities to football, but played on flying broomsticks) as a Seeker. He also comes to dislike the school's Potions master, Severus Snape, who is also the Head of Slytherin House who acts with bias in favour of members of his House while perpetually looking for opportunities to fail Harry and his friends. Malfoy tricks Harry and Ron into a duel in the trophy room to get them out of their rooms at night and secretly tells Filch, the school's caretaker, where they will be. Hermione unintentionally is forced to come along after her failed attempts to stop them, and they find Gryffindor student Neville Longbottom asleep outside the common area because he had forgotten the password to get in. After realizing the duel was a set-up to get them in trouble, they run away. They then discover a huge three-headed dog standing guard over a trapdoor in a forbidden corridor. The school's Halloween celebrations are interrupted by the entrance of a troll into the school, which enters the girls' bathroom where Hermione was. However, she is saved by Harry and Ron and, as a result, Hermione is grateful and the three become best friends. Coupled with Snape's recent leg injury as well as behaviour, the recent events prompt Harry, Hermione and Ron to suspect him to be looking for a way to enter the trapdoor.

Hermione forbids the boys from investigating for fear of expulsion, and instead makes Harry direct his attention to his first ever Quidditch game, where his broomstick begins to lose control and threatens to throw him off. This leads Hermione to suspect that Snape had jinxed Harry's broom, due to his strange behaviour during the match. After the excitement of winning the match has died down, Christmas arrives and Harry receives an invisibility cloak from an anonymous source claiming that the cloak belonged to Harry's father. Using the cloak to explore the school at night to investigate what is under the trapdoor, he discovers the Mirror of Erised, in which the viewer sees his or her deepest desires come true.

A visit to Hagrid's hut at the foot of the school leads the trio to find a newspaper report stating there had been an attempted robbery of a Gringotts vault—the same vault that Hagrid and Harry had visited when the latter was getting his school supplies. A further indiscretion from Hagrid allows them to work out that the object kept under that trapdoor is a Philosopher's Stone, which grants its user immortality as well as the ability to turn any metal into pure gold. Harry is also informed by a centaur named Firenze in the forest that a plot to steal the Stone is being orchestrated by none other than Voldemort himself, who schemes to use it to be restored back to his body and return to power. When the school's headmaster Albus Dumbledore is lured from Hogwarts under false pretences, Harry, Hermione and Ron fear that the theft is imminent and descend through the trapdoor themselves.

They encounter a series of obstacles, each of which requires unique skills possessed by one of the three, one of which requires Ron to sacrifice himself in a life-sized game of wizard's chess. In the final room, Harry, now alone, finds Quirinus Quirrell, the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, who reveals he had been the one working behind the scenes to kill Harry by first jinxing his broom and then letting a troll into the school, while Snape had been trying to protect Harry instead. Quirrell is helping Voldemort, whose face has sprouted on the back of Quirrell's head but is constantly concealed by his oversized turban, to attain the Philosopher's Stone so as to restore his body. Quirrell uses Harry to get past the final obstacle, the Mirror of Erised, by forcing him to stand before the Mirror. It recognises Harry's lack of greed for the Stone and surreptitiously deposits it into his pocket. As Quirrell attempts to seize the stone and kill Harry, his flesh burns on contact with the boy's skin and breaks into blisters. Harry's scar suddenly burns with pain and he passes out.

Three days later, he awakens in the school's infirmary, where Dumbledore explains his survival against Voldemort is due to his mother's sacrificing her life in order for him to live. This left a powerful protective charm on Harry that lives in his blood, which caused Quirrell's hands to burn on contact with Harry due to him being possessed by hatred and greed. He also reveals himself as the one who sent Harry his father's invisibility cloak, while Quirrell has been left to die by Voldemort, who still lives, and the Stone has now been destroyed. The eventful school year ends at the final feast, during which Gryffindor wins the House Cup. Harry returns to Privet Drive for the summer, neglecting to tell the Dursleys that the use of spells is forbidden by under-aged wizards and witches and thus anticipating some fun and peace over the holidays.






On Harry Potter's twelfth birthday, the Dursley family—Harry's uncle Vernon, aunt Petunia, and cousin Dudley—hold a dinner party for a potential client of Vernon's drill-manufacturing company. Harry is not invited but is content to spend the evening quietly in his bedroom, although he is confused why his school friends have not sent cards or presents. However, while in his room, a house-elf named Dobby warns him not to return to Hogwarts and admits to intercepting Harry's post from his friends. Having failed to persuade Harry to voluntarily give up his place at Hogwarts, Dobby then attempts to get him expelled by using magic to smash Aunt Petunia's dessert on the kitchen floor and framing Harry, who is not allowed to use magic outside school. Uncle Vernon's business deal falls through, but Harry is given a second chance from the Ministry of Magic and allowed to return at the start of the school year.

In the meantime, Uncle Vernon punishes Harry, fitting locks to his bedroom door and bars to the windows. However, Harry’s best friend Ron Weasley arrives with his twin brothers Fred and George in their father Arthur’s enchanted Ford Anglia. They rescue Harry, who stays at the Weasley's family home, the Burrow, for the remainder of his holidays. Harry and the other Weasleys—mother Molly, third-eldest son Percy, and daughter Ginny (who has a crush on Harry)—travel to Diagon Alley. They are then reunited with Hermione Granger and introduced to Lucius Malfoy, father of Harry’s school nemesis Draco, and Gilderoy Lockhart, a conceited autobiographer who has been appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor after the death of Professor Quirrell. When Harry and Ron approach Platform 93⁄4. in King's Cross station, it refuses to allow them to pass. They decide to fly Arthur’s car to Hogwarts after missing the train when they cannot get through the barrier. Harry and Ron crash into a Whomping Willow on the grounds.

In punishment for the crash, Ron cleans the school trophies, and Harry helps Professor Lockhart, whose classes are chaotic, with addressing his fan mail. Harry learns of some wizards' prejudice about blood status in terms of “pure” blood (only wizarding heritage) and those with Muggle (non-magical) parentage. He is alone in hearing an unnerving voice seemingly coming from the walls of the school itself. During a deathday party for Gryffindor House’s ghost Nearly Headless Nick, Harry, Ron, and Hermione run into the school caretaker Argus Filch’s petrified cat, Mrs. Norris, along with a warning scrawled on the wall: “The Chamber of Secrets has been opened. Enemies of the heir, beware.”

Rumours fly around the school regarding the Chamber of Secrets' history. Harry and his friends discover from Cuthbert Binns, the ghostly professor of History of Magic, that it allegedly houses a terrible monster and was created by one of the school’s founders, Salazar Slytherin, after a fundamental disagreement with the other founders (Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, and Rowena Ravenclaw). Slytherin believed students of non-magical parentage should be refused entry to the school. During a Quidditch game, a Bludger, one of the balls involved in Quidditch, chases after Harry instead of zigzagging toward any player it can hit. The rogue Bludger breaks Harry's arm. In an attempt to mend it, Lockhart accidentally removes all the bones from Harry's broken arm, which requires an overnight stay in the hospital wing to heal. Dobby returns in the middle of the night to visit Harry in the hospital wing, revealing that it was he who charmed the Bludger and sealed the gateway at King’s Cross and that the Chamber of Secrets was opened before. Another attack occurs, this time on a first-year Gryffindor named Colin Creevey, who idolises Harry, and the school goes into a state of panic. A duelling class is then set up for the students (led by Lockhart and Potions master/Head of Slytherin House Severus Snape), during which it is revealed that Harry is a 'Parselmouth', meaning he has the rare ability to speak to snakes.

This sparks rumours yet again because students around the school suspect Harry is the Heir of Slytherin (Salazar Slytherin was also a Parselmouth). Circumstantial evidence to support this theory arrives in the form of another attack, this time on Hufflepuff second-year Justin Finch-Fletchley and Nearly Headless Nick. Harry, Ron, and Hermione begin to suspect Draco Malfoy is behind the attacks, given his family history of remaining well within Slytherin ranks and open hostility toward Muggle-born students. After talking about their speculations, Hermione concocts Polyjuice Potion, which allows Harry and Ron to look like Draco’s boorish lackeys, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, for an hour. Harry and Ron use this hour to interrogate Draco. This comes to nothing because Draco’s father only told his son the general facts of the previous opening of the Chamber and that it occurred fifty years previously. Meanwhile, "Moaning" Myrtle Warren, an existentially mopey ghost that haunts a girls' bathroom at Hogwarts, unwittingly provides a new clue in the form of a diary deposited in her stall. The trio discover the diary belonged to Tom Riddle, a student who knows all too well about the Chamber, having been witness to a fellow student’s death while the Chamber was opened fifty years ago. The culprit, Riddle reveals to Harry, was none other than Rubeus Hagrid, now gamekeeper for Hogwarts. When Hermione is attacked next, alongside a Ravenclaw prefect, the school is put on lockdown, and headmaster Albus Dumbledore and Hagrid are forced to leave.

Fortunately for Harry and Ron, Hagrid left a set of instructions: follow the spiders currently fleeing into the Forbidden Forest. They do this, only to find the monster that was blamed for the attacks fifty years before, a massive Acromantula named Aragog, who explains to them that the real monster is one spiders fear above all others. When Harry and Ron try to leave, Aragog says they cannot leave because his sons and daughters have not eaten for a long time and plan to eat the boys. Before the spiders can grab them, Arthur's Ford Anglia arrives, and the boys use the car to escape. Hermione provides the last set of clues that inform them of the monster’s identity: a basilisk, (hence Harry’s ability to understand it) that kills with a stare (although no one is dead because of various devices through which they indirectly saw the monster) and that spiders (such as Aragog and his offspring) fear above all others. Harry figures out from hints Aragog dropped that the student who died during the previous attacks was Myrtle, and when Ginny is taken by the monster into the Chamber, Harry and Ron discover that the entrance is in the bathroom they have been using to make Polyjuice Potion. Harry, Ron, and Lockhart enter the Chamber, but the dunderheaded professor (who reveals that he is a fraud) causes a rockfall while attempting to erase the boys’ memories with Ron’s damaged wand, permanently losing his memory in the process.

Separated from Ron, Harry enters the Chamber of Secrets alone to find an unconscious Ginny and Tom Riddle, who claims to be a memory preserved in his diary for the last fifty years. Riddle shows Harry that his full name, Tom Marvolo Riddle, can be made into the anagram "I am Lord Voldemort." Tom Riddle is in fact Voldemort's true name, and it was he who opened the Chamber fifty years before and framed Hagrid. Riddle is the true Heir of Slytherin. By possessing Ginny through his diary, Riddle has been continuing what he started fifty years before. Harry's loyalty to Dumbledore in the face of Riddle summons Dumbledore's phoenix Fawkes, who arrives with the Sorting Hat. Fawkes blinds the basilisk, allowing Harry to remove the Sword of Godric Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and slay the creature. Though fatally poisoned by the basilisk, Fawkes's healing tears save Harry, who uses a basilisk fang to stab Riddle's diary. Both the diary and Riddle are destroyed, and Ginny is restored.

Harry, Ron, Ginny, and Lockhart return to the main castle and reunite with McGonagall, Dumbledore, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Ginny, whose possession by Voldemort caused all of the petrification and troubles over the course of the year, is given a reprieve by Dumbledore. He reasons that greater wizards have been duped by Voldemort before and takes great interest in the qualities of the diary, which Harry gives to him. Lucius Malfoy bursts in after this meeting, demanding to know why and how Dumbledore has returned to the school. He is accompanied by Dobby, revealing that Dobby is enslaved to the Malfoys. The house-elf also provides Harry with unspoken clues regarding the diary’s ownership. Although it was Tom Riddle’s, it had been in the Malfoys’ possession. While in Diagon Alley over the summer, Lucius, a follower of Voldemort, had slipped the diary into Ginny's cauldron to ensure the reopening of the Chamber of Secrets. Harry returns the diary, devising a scenario involving his own sock that frees Dobby from the Malfoys’ employment, hence provoking an attack on Harry. Dobby jumps in and saves Harry. The petrified students are cured, the end-of-year exams are cancelled (much to Hermione’s chagrin), Hagrid returns in the middle of the final feast, Lockhart is discharged from his job as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, and Harry returns to Privet Drive in higher spirits than he last left it.






Harry is back at the Dursley's for the summer holidays, where he sees on Muggle television that a convict named Sirius Black has escaped from prison. After the Dursley's Aunt Marge personally insults Harry, Harry accidentally inflates her, then runs away from home, fearing expulsion from school. After being picked up by the Knight Bus and meeting Stan Shunpike, he travels to the Leaky Cauldron, where Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic, asks Harry to stay in Diagon Alley for his own protection. While there, he meets his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger.

Before leaving for Hogwarts, Harry learns from Arthur Weasley that Sirius Black is a convicted murderer from the wizarding world and that Black has escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban to kill Harry. On the way to Hogwarts, a Dementor (an Azkaban prison guard that feeds on positive thoughts) boards the train, causing Harry to relive his parents' deaths before fainting. The new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Remus Lupin, protects Harry, Ron, and Hermione from the Dementor. They later learn Dementors will be patrolling the school in an attempt to catch Black. Although Professor Lupin is popular with his students, the Potions master, Snape, seems to hate him.

During a Quidditch match, Harry faints and falls off his broomstick after Dementors invade the field. Dumbledore did not want the dementors to enter Hogwarts and was furious. His Nimbus 2000 is blown away and smashed by the Whomping Willow, a violent tree in the grounds. Afterward, Professor Lupin teaches Harry how to defend himself from Dementors using the Patronus charm. Harry wants to be taught by Lupin because he made the dementors go away on the train to Hogwarts.

Ron and Hermione's friendship later suffers when Ron believes Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, to have eaten his rat, Scabbers. Hermione also gets Harry's new anonymously given Christmas present, a top-of-the-range Firebolt broomstick, confiscated for fear it might be jinxed by Sirius Black. Hermione becomes severely stressed by her many classes, some of which seem to occur at the same time, a detail which she refuses to explain to Harry and Ron.

Meanwhile, Hagrid's hippogriff Buckbeak is in danger of being executed by the Ministry of Magic after injuring Draco Malfoy, who provoked Buckbeak. His father Lucius Malfoy tries to obtain justice for his son's injury. Despite Hermione's and Ron's efforts to defend the hippogriff, they and Harry seemingly hear Buckbeak executed as they leave Hagrid's hut. While visiting Hagrid's, however, Hermione discovers Scabbers hiding there. Hagrid gives scabbers back to Ron and Hermione tells Ron to apologize for blaming her cat for eating him. Then a rock is thrown to their direction

Scabbers escapes from Ron, who gives chase. The large black dog appears and attacks Ron, then drags him into a tunnel under the Whomping Willow. Crookshanks (who seems to be in league with the dog), Harry, and Hermione follow them through the tunnel and to the Shrieking Shack, a haunted house in Hogsmeade. They discover that the dog is Sirius Black in animal form. Harry disarms Black and intends to kill him but finds he cannot.

Lupin enters and embraces Black as a friend. He explains that, although he believed Black to have betrayed the Potters, he realises now that it was Peter Pettigrew. He admits he is a werewolf and that, while at school, his friends (Black, Pettigrew, and Harry's father, James Potter) learned to transform into animals to keep Lupin company during his transformations. Lupin explains that Scabbers is Pettigrew in his animal form. Pettigrew faked his own death, framing Black for the murders, and has been hiding from Black since his escape from Azkaban.

Snape, who still holds a childhood grudge against Lupin and his friends, arrives to apprehend Black but is knocked unconscious by Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who now believe Black to be innocent. Lupin and Black transform Pettigrew into human form and prepare to kill him, but Harry stops them because he feels his father would not have wanted it. He convinces Lupin and Black to send Pettigrew to Azkaban instead.

As they attempt to bring Pettigrew back to Hogwarts, the full moon transforms Lupin into a wolf. Lupin, not in his own mind, attacks them. In the confusion, Pettigrew transforms into a rat and escapes. Harry, Hermione, and Black are chased to the shore of the lake, where they are set upon by Dementors. They are rescued by a Patronus cast by a figure on the opposite shore, whom Harry thinks is his father.

Reawakening later in the hospital wing, Harry and Hermione are told that Black has been sentenced to have his soul sucked out by Dementors, a fate worse than death known as the Dementor's Kiss. Professor Dumbledore tells Harry and Hermione to use Hermione's time-turner, a device she has been using to attend her simultaneous classes, to go back in time and save Buckbeak and Sirius. They rescue Buckbeak from execution and later watch themselves attacked by Dementors at the lake. Harry realises that the figure he saw was not his father but himself, and he casts the Patronus charm that drives away the Dementors. Harry and Hermione ride Buckbeak to the tower where Black is being held and break him out. Black escapes on Buckbeak.

Harry and Hermione return to the hospital wing to close the timeline. Enraged by the escape of Black, Snape lets slip that Lupin is a werewolf, forcing him to resign. Harry returns to Kings Cross with his friends and receives a letter from Black, giving him permission to visit Hogsmeade next year.






Throughout the three previous novels in the Harry Potter series, the main character, Harry Potter, has struggled with the difficulties of growing up and the added challenge of being a famed wizard. When Harry was a baby, Lord Voldemort, the most powerful dark wizard in history, killed Harry's parents but was mysteriously defeated after unsuccessfully trying to kill Harry, though his attempt left a lightning-shaped scar on Harry's forehead. This results in Harry's immediate fame and his being placed in the care of his abusive Muggle (non-magical) aunt and uncle, Petunia and Vernon Dursley, who have a son named Dudley.

On Harry's eleventh birthday, he learns he is a wizard from Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and enrols in Hogwarts. He befriends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger and confronts Lord Voldemort, who is trying to regain power. In Harry's first year, he has to protect the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort and one of his faithful followers at Hogwarts. After returning to school after summer break, students at Hogwarts are attacked by the legendary monster of the Chamber of Secrets after the Chamber is opened. Harry ends the attacks by killing a Basilisk and thwarting another attempt by Lord Voldemort to return to full strength. The following year, Harry hears he has been targeted by escaped mass murderer Sirius Black. Despite stringent security measures at Hogwarts, Harry encounters Black at the end of his third year and learns Black was framed and is actually Harry's godfather. He also learns that it was his father's old school friend Peter Pettigrew who betrayed his parents.

In a prologue, which Harry sees through a dream, Frank Bryce, Muggle caretaker of an abandoned mansion known as the Riddle House, is murdered by Lord Voldemort after stumbling upon him and Wormtail. Harry is awoken by his scar hurting.

The Weasleys invite Harry and Hermione Granger to the Quidditch World Cup, to which they travel using a Portkey, meeting Cedric Diggory, a Hufflepuff sixth-year, on the way. In the match, Ireland triumph over Bulgaria, despite the skill of Bulgaria's star seeker, Viktor Krum. Various Ministry of Magic employees at the World Cup discuss Bertha Jorkins, a Ministry worker who has gone missing. Her head-of-department, the charismatic Ludo Bagman, is unconcerned.

After the match, men wearing the masks of Death Eaters, followers of Voldemort, attack the camp site, causing terror and abusing the Muggle campsite owners. The Dark Mark is fired into the sky, causing mass panic. Harry discovers that his wand is missing. It is later found in the possession of Winky, Barty Crouch's house elf, and the wand is found to have been used to cast the Mark. Although very few believe Winky could have conjured the Mark, Barty Crouch dismisses Winky from his service. Hermione, angry at this injustice, forms a society to promote house elf rights, known as S.P.E.W. (Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare).

At Hogwarts, Professor Dumbledore announces that Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody will be the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for the year. Dumbledore also announces that Hogwarts will host a revival of the Triwizard Tournament, in which a champion of Hogwarts will compete against champions from two other European wizarding schools: Beauxbatons Academy, and Durmstrang Institute. The champions are chosen by the Goblet of Fire from names dropped into it. Because Harry is under 17 (the age of majority in the wizarding world), he is disallowed from entering.

At Halloween, the Goblet of Fire picks Fleur Delacour from Beauxbatons Academy, Viktor Krum, the Bulgaria seeker, from Durmstrang Institute, and Cedric Diggory from Hogwarts to compete in the tournament. Unexpectedly, however, it also chooses Harry as a fourth champion. Despite anger from the Beauxbatons and Durmstrang contingents, Harry's being chosen magically binds him to compete, forcing him to be an unwilling participant in the Tournament. Very few people believe Harry's protests that he did not put his own name in; Ron, envious of Harry again being the centre of attention, accuses Harry of lying and breaks up their friendship.

In their first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson, Professor Moody introduces the class to the Unforgivable Curses: the Imperius Curse, through which a wizard can be controlled as another wills; the Cruciatus Curse, which causes immense pain; and Avada Kedavra, the killing curse.

A tabloid-style reporter, Rita Skeeter, starts writing scandalous articles of half-truths and outright fabrications in The Daily Prophet about those at Hogwarts, starting with Harry. Because of the Prophet's high readership, her words hold a lot of sway among the wizarding population.

Despite champions not being allowed to know, Hagrid covertly reveals to Harry that the first task is to get past a dragon. Madame Maxime, the headmistress of Beauxbatons, and Professor Karkaroff, headmaster of Durmstrang, also discover this. Sure that they will tell their respective champions, Harry informs Cedric about the dragons in the interest of fairness. Harry struggles to think of a way past a dragon, until Moody suggests flying. Hermione helps him to perfect a Summoning Charm, which he uses to summon his Firebolt broomstick and fly past the dragon to retrieve a golden egg, receiving high marks from the judges. Ron and Harry subsequently reconcile, Ron now understanding the full danger of the tournament. Harry's egg is supposed to contain a clue to the next task, but when opened it merely shrieks loudly.

Hermione infiltrates the school kitchen as part of her house elf welfare campaign (in which she is finding few allies and much resistance). She takes Harry and Ron there to meet Dobby, who now works there after his freeing in Harry's second year. They also find a distraught Winky, who is seriously depressed after being sacked. Dobby is the only known house elf to appreciate his freedom, despite his hardworking nature; the others reject Hermione's idea of payment and holidays, which they find distressing.

The students are informed of the Yule Ball, a Triwizard Tournament tradition, which requires Harry to find a partner with whom to open the dance. He eventually asks Cho Chang, a Ravenclaw fifth-year with whom he is smitten, but she has already agreed to go with Cedric. Ultimately, Harry asks Parvati and Padma Patil to go with him and Ron. Hermione, offended that Ron did not consider her except as a last resort, attends with Viktor Krum, causing intense jealousy in Ron. At the ball, Cedric tells Harry to take the egg into the bath in the prefects' bathroom to work out the clue, but Harry is reluctant to accept the advice because he is jealous over Cho.

Rita Skeeter writes an article revealing Hagrid's half-giant parentage (though it is a mystery how she found out), a taboo in the wizarding world. After Hermione confronts her, Skeeter writes articles painting Hermione as Harry's unfaithful girlfriend. After masses of hate mail, Hermione swears revenge on Skeeter.

The trio secretly meet Sirius at Hogsmeade, who tells them that Barty Crouch was fanatical about catching dark wizards, often stooping to the same level to punish them. This culminated in Crouch sending his own son to Azkaban. His son later died there. Sirius suspects that someone is attempting to attack Harry through the Tournament and make it look like an accident. He suspects Karkaroff, who is a former Death Eater who walked free.

Finally acting on Cedric's tip, Harry takes the egg to the prefects' bathroom by night, where with help from Moaning Myrtle he listens to the egg underwater. There, the shrieks become the words of a song, which tells Harry that the task is to recover something dear to him from Merpeople at the bottom of the lake in the grounds. While sneaking back to Gryffindor Tower under his invisibility cloak, he sees Barty Crouch in Snape's office on the Marauder's Map, despite Crouch supposedly being too ill to judge the Triwizard Tournament. While investigating, Harry falls into a trick step and drops the egg, which shrieks loudly and attracts Filch, Snape (who has had potion ingredients stolen), and Moody. Moody's magical eye sees Harry stuck in the stair under his cloak, but Moody covers for him, then borrows the Marauder's Map.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione are unable to find a way to survive underwater for the second task, leaving Harry panic-stricken. He is rescued on the morning of the task by Dobby, who gives him some Gillyweed that he heard Moody and Professor Sprout talking about. The Gillyweed gives Harry flippers and gills and allows him to find Ron at the bottom of the lake. However, he refuses to leave the hostages belonging to the other champions behind, and insists on rescuing Fleur's sister when Fleur does not arrive. Although Harry finishes last, the judges (apart from Karkaroff) still award him high marks for 'moral fibre.'

One month before the final task, Harry and Krum are talking near the Forbidden Forest when they encounter Barty Crouch, who stopped appearing to work at the Ministry several months ago. Although insane, in moments of clarity he confesses to have done 'something terrible,' that Bertha Jorkins is dead, and begs for Dumbledore. Leaving Krum with Crouch, Harry fetches Dumbledore but returns to find Krum stunned and Crouch gone, Krum claiming that Crouch attacked him from behind. Moody gives chase but does not find Crouch.

During a Divination lesson, Harry experiences another dream involving Voldemort punishing Wormtail for a 'mistake.' Harry tells Dumbledore about this, and stumbles upon a memory-keeping device in Dumbledore's office, a Pensieve. Inside the Pensieve, he discovers that Ludo Bagman was accused and acquitted of Death Eater activity, and that Barty Crouch's son was sent to Azkaban for supposedly helping to torture Neville Longbottom's parents into insanity.

Harry prepares for the final task, a hedge maze filled with dangerous creatures and obstacles, the goal being to reach the Triwizard Cup at the centre. Inside the maze, Harry stuns Krum, who was using the Cruciatus Curse on Cedric. Helping each other, the two reach the Cup. They agree to touch it at the same time and become joint winners. However, on touching it they discover that it is a Portkey that transports them to a graveyard. There, Wormtail appears, kills Cedric using Voldemort's wand, and ties up Harry. Wormtail uses Harry's blood, Tom Riddle Sr.'s bone, and his own hand to restore Lord Voldemort to a body.

Voldemort, alive again, summons his Death Eaters, berates them for believing him dead, and mentions that he has a single 'faithful servant' concealed at Hogwarts, who has led Harry to the graveyard for the resurrection. He tortures Harry, then challenges him to a duel to prove his prowess. However, when he and Harry fire spells at each other, their wands connect unexpectedly, causing echoes of Voldemort's previous magic to appear, including manifestations of Cedric and Harry's parents. These echoes provide a distraction for Harry, who escapes with Cedric's body to the Cup, which takes him back to Hogwarts.

Under the panic caused by his arrival, Moody takes a traumatised Harry to his office. He reveals himself to be Voldemort's 'faithful servant.' He explains that he put Harry's name into the Goblet of Fire under a different school and has been guiding him through the tournament to ensure he would touch the Cup first: he gave him the hint about flying, staged a conversation about Gillyweed in front of Dobby, cursed obstacles from outside the hedge maze, and used the Imperius Curse on Krum to force him to curse Cedric. As Moody prepares to kill Harry, Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Snape intervene and stun Moody. Slowly, Moody changes appearance to become Barty Crouch Jr., the supposedly long-dead son of Barty Crouch Sr., who was using Polyjuice Potion to impersonate Moody.

Using Veritaserum, a truth potion, they learn that Barty Crouch Sr. rescued his son from Azkaban as a favour to his dying wife: the Crouch Jr. who died in Azkaban was his mother, disguised under Polyjuice Potion. Crouch Jr. was kept imprisoned at home. Winky convinced Crouch Sr. to allow Crouch Jr. to see the Quidditch World Cup, where he stole Harry's wand, escaped, and conjured the Dark Mark. Wormtail, meanwhile, had captured Bertha Jorkins, who had once seen Crouch Jr. at home and been bewitched to forget. This allowed Voldemort to discover Crouch Jr.'s whereabouts, then formulate a plan to install Crouch at Hogwarts and lead Harry to him. Crouch Sr. was imprisoned by Wormtail, and when he escaped to Hogwarts, Crouch Jr. killed him.

Dumbledore explains that Harry's and Voldemort's wands connected because they share a core of a feather from the same phoenix, coincidentally Dumbledore's own phoenix Fawkes.

Dumbledore announces Lord Voldemort's return to the school. However, many people, including Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, refuse to believe it. Fudge hastily has the Dementor's Kiss performed on Crouch Jr., who is thus unable to give testimony proving Voldemort's return. Dumbledore puts his own anti-Voldemort plans into action.

Hermione discovers Rita Skeeter is an unregistered Animagus who can take the form of a beetle, allowing her to eavesdrop on secrets. She blackmails Skeeter to force her to stop writing her libelous stories. Not wanting his tournament winnings, Harry gives all one thousand Galleons to Fred and George to start their joke shop, and returns home with the Dursleys.






During the summer holidays with his aunt Petunia and uncle Vernon, 15-year-old Harry Potter and his cousin Dudley are attacked by Dementors. After openly using magic to save Dudley and himself, Harry is expelled from Hogwarts, but his expulsion is postponed pending a hearing at the Ministry of Magic. Harry is whisked off by a group of wizards including Mad-Eye Moody, Remus Lupin, and several new faces, including Nymphadora Tonks, a bubbly young Metamorphmagus (a witch or wizard who can change his or her appearance without a potion or spell), and Kingsley Shacklebolt, a senior Auror, to Number 12, Grimmauld Place, the childhood home of Sirius Black. The building also serves as the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, of which Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Sirius are also members. Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger explain that the Order is a secret organisation led by Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore dedicated to fighting Lord Voldemort and his followers, the Death Eaters. From the members of the Order, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny Weasley and Fred and George Weasley learn that Voldemort is seeking an object he did not have prior to his first defeat and assume this object to be a weapon of some sort. Harry learns the Ministry of Magic, led by Cornelius Fudge, is refusing to acknowledge Voldemort's return because of the panic and chaos doing so would cause. Harry also learns the Daily Prophet has been running a smear campaign against him and Dumbledore. At the hearing, Harry is cleared when Dumbledore provides evidence that Harry was fully within his rights to use magic against the Dementors, but refuses to make direct eye contact with him.

At Hogwarts, Dolores Umbridge, a senior employee in the Ministry of Magic, becomes the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Umbridge and Harry clash because she, like Fudge, refuses to believe Voldemort has returned. She punishes Harry for his rebellious outbursts by having him write "I must not tell lies" with a cursed quill that carves the phrase into the back of his hand. She also refuses to teach her students how to perform defensive spells, prompting Harry, Ron, and Hermione to form their own Defence Against the Dark Arts group with students from Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, and Hufflepuff. They call this group Dumbledore's Army. Many students sign up, including Neville Longbottom, Fred and George Weasley, Ginny Weasley, and Luna Lovegood. The next day, however, they see on the notice board that Umbridge has banned all clubs she has not approved. Struggling to find a place to practice, Dobby the house elf tells him about the Room of Requirement and its uses. The club meets there to learn and practice defensive spells under Harry's instruction.

Meanwhile, Rubeus Hagrid has not yet returned from the secret mission Dumbledore gave him at the end of the previous book and is absent for the first part of the school year. Upon his return, Harry, Ron, and Hermione learn his mission, which was mostly unsuccessful, was to find the last giants and prevent their joining Lord Voldemort. Professor Umbridge has been steadily amassing more and more power and influence at the school, and as she begins regularly inspecting Hagrid's Care of Magical Creatures lessons, it is clear she intends to sack him.

One night, Harry dreams through the eyes of Voldemort's snake Nagini, who is possessed by Voldemort. Nagini attacks and seriously injures Arthur Weasley. Harry tells Professor McGonagall and Dumbledore, and Mr. Weasley is rescued. Dumbledore arranges for Harry to take Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape to protect his mind against further invasions by Voldemort.

Umbridge sacks Professor Trelawney, the Divination teacher, but she is outraged when Professor Dumbledore undermines her power by allowing Trelawney to continue living at the school and hiring Firenze, a centaur, to take her place, in spite of Umbridge's prejudice against part-humans. Soon after, Umbridge is given a tip-off about Dumbledore's Army by Marietta Edgecombe, a friend of Harry's crush Cho Chang. Marietta's betrayal unwittingly activates a curse set by Hermione that disfigures her face. Despite Dobby's warning, the gang are caught and get into trouble with Fudge. When Dumbledore takes responsibility for the illegal organisation, he is forced into hiding. Dolores Umbridge becomes headmistress, and Fred and George cause pandemonium around the school in revenge.

During one Occlumency lesson, Snape is called away. Harry, left alone, looks into Dumbledore's Pensieve, which Snape has borrowed, and sees a memory of Snape's time as a Hogwarts student. Harry is shocked to witness his father, James Potter, and Sirius bullying and humiliating Snape. Snape catches Harry and, enraged, refuses to continue his lessons. Distraught at this revelation of his father's character, Harry talks to Sirius and Lupin using Floo powder in the fireplace in Umbridge's office and learns more about his parents and their background. After helping Harry break into Umbridge's office, Fred and George leave Hogwarts to start a joke shop in Diagon Alley.

Suspecting he will be the next teacher Umbridge sacks, Hagrid confesses to Harry, Ron, and Hermione that he has brought his giant half-brother, Grawp, to Hogwarts and hidden him in the Forbidden Forest with the intention of eventually introducing him to human society. Hagrid asks the three of them to look after Grawp if he must leave the school. Sure enough, Umbridge leads a party of Aurors to attack Hagrid in his house one night. Hagrid overpowers them and flees the school. McGonagall, trying to disrupt the violence, is badly injured and put in St. Mungo's Hospital.

On the last day of O.W.L. exams, Harry has a vision of Sirius being tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries. Harry uses Umbridge's office fireplace to contact the Order of the Phoenix's headquarters and check whether the vision was genuine. Kreacher the house elf informs him Sirius is indeed at the Ministry just before Umbridge catches Harry and his friends. Umbridge summons Snape to provide Veritaserum to question Harry, but Snape claims to have no further stocks of the potion left. Remembering Snape is also a member of the Order, Harry gives him a cryptic warning about Sirius, but Snape claims to have not understood it.

Umbridge decides to use the illegal Cruciatus Curse on Harry to interrogate him about Sirius's whereabouts. She also reveals that she ordered the Dementor attack on Harry, intending to have him either silenced or discredited. Hermione intervenes, and in order to create a distraction, she convinces Umbridge they are hiding a weapon of Dumbledore's in the Forbidden Forest. Harry and Hermione lead her into an area of the forest inhabited by centaurs, where Umbridge provokes them into taking her captive. The centaurs are furious upon learning that Hermione used them to do her bidding and turn on the pair, but Grawp arrives and clashes with the centaurs, allowing Harry and Hermione to escape.

Luna, Ron, Ginny, and Neville join them in the forest, and all six fly to the Ministry on thestrals, expecting to find and rescue Sirius. Once in the Department of Mysteries, Harry realises his vision was falsely planted by Voldemort. However, he finds a glass sphere bearing his and Voldemort's names. Death Eaters led by Lucius Malfoy attack in order to capture the sphere, which is a recording of a prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort. The prophecy is revealed to be the object Voldemort has been trying to obtain the whole year because Voldemort believes he missed something when he first heard the prophecy. Lucius explains that only the subjects of prophecies (in this case, Harry or Voldemort) can remove them from the shelves. During a heated fight, Neville accidentally kicks and smashes the prophecy. Harry and his friends, soon joined by members of the Order, battle with the Death Eaters. During the fight, Bellatrix Lestrange kills Sirius. Voldemort himself arrives to kill Harry, but Dumbledore appears and engages in a ferocious duel with Voldemort, which eventually reaches a stalemate. Unable to kill Dumbledore, Voldemort tries to possess Harry in an attempt to get Dumbledore to kill Harry. Harry fights off the possession, and Voldemort escapes just as Fudge appears. Faced with firsthand evidence that Voldemort has returned, Fudge has no choice but to accept the truth.

In his office, Dumbledore explains that Snape understood Harry's cryptic warning and contacted Sirius to confirm he was still at Grimmauld Place. After Harry did not return from the Forbidden Forest, Snape deduced where he had gone and alerted the Order, enabling them to save Harry and his friends. Dumbledore reveals that during the Christmas holidays, Kreacher interpreted a command of Sirius's as an order to leave the house and went to Narcissa Malfoy, the wife of Lucius, and told her about Harry and Sirius's close relationship. Voldemort used Kreacher's information to lure Harry to the Department of Mysteries by planting the vision that Sirius was in danger there.

Owing Harry a full explanation, Dumbledore reveals the full contents of the prophecy made by Sybil Trelawney herself:

The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches
Born to those who have thrice defied him
Born as the seventh month dies
And the Dark Lord shall mark him as his equal
But he will have power the Dark Lord knows not
And either must die at the hand of the other
For neither can live while the other survives
The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord
Will be born as the seventh month dies
Voldemort learned of the first part of the prophecy and subsequently tried to murder Harry, believing he could prevent the prophecy from coming true and unaware he would grant Harry great power and mark him as an equal by doing so. Dumbledore tells Harry he must stay with the Dursleys for one last summer because, by taking Harry into her home, Aunt Petunia, Lily's older sister, seals the protection Harry's mother afforded him when she died. As long as he is at Number Four, Privet Drive, he is safe from Voldemort and his followers.

Harry comes to terms with the responsibility of the prophecy but mourns the loss of his godfather. Harry then finds an old handheld mirror in his dormitory that was a gift from Sirius. He realises Sirius would not want him to be depressed on the matter and resolves to keep fighting Voldemort.






Severus Snape, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, meets with Narcissa Malfoy, Draco's mother, and her sister Bellatrix Lestrange, Lord Voldemort's faithful supporter. Narcissa expresses her concern that her son might not survive a dangerous mission given him by Lord Voldemort. Bellatrix feels Snape will be of no help until he surprises her by making an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa, swearing on his life that he will protect and assist Draco in his mission.

Dumbledore picks Harry up from his aunt and uncle's house, intending to escort him to the Burrow, the home of Harry's best friend Ron and his large family. On the way, they make a detour to the temporary home of Horace Slughorn, former Potions teacher at Hogwarts, and Harry unwittingly helps persuade Slughorn to return to teach. Harry and Dumbledore then proceed to the Burrow, where Hermione has already arrived.

The next morning, Harry, Ron, and Hermione get their O.W.L. exam results, along with lists of school supplies. Harry's letter reveals that he has been made captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione follow Draco to Dark Arts artifacts supplier Borgin and Burke's in Knockturn Alley. Harry is suspicious of Draco, who he believes has become a Death Eater following the arrest of his father Lucius.

On the Hogwarts Express, Harry discusses his suspicions of Draco's allegiance to Lord Voldemort, but Ron and Hermione are doubtful because of Harry's lack of evidence. Harry dons his invisibility cloak and hides in the same carriage in which Malfoy is seated. He overhears Draco bragging to his friends about the mission Lord Voldemort has given him. However, Malfoy suspects someone else is in the carriage and discovers Harry was listening to his conversation. Malfoy petrifies Harry and breaks his nose out of rage. Harry cannot get out of the carriage, and he is worried the Hogwarts Express will depart before he can move again. To his relief, Nymphadora Tonks finds Harry and escorts him to the castle during the opening feast.

The students return to school, where Dumbledore announces Snape will be teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts. Dumbledore also announces Horace Slughorn will resume his previous post as Potions master. Harry now excels in Potions, thanks to having received a used Potions textbook that once belonged to someone named "The Half-Blood Prince," a mysterious former student who wrote numerous tips and spells in the book that sometimes contradict the written text. Harry uses this information to achieve superb results. During a class contest, The Half-Blood Prince's tips help Harry win a bottle of Felix Felicis, more commonly known as "Liquid Luck." Though Harry's success pleases Slughorn, his newfound brilliance in potions angers Hermione, who feels he is not truly earning his grades and also does not trust the Half-Blood Prince.

Believing Harry needs to learn Voldemort's past to gain an advantage in a foretold battle, Dumbledore schedules regular meetings with Harry in his office. Dumbledore and Harry use Dumbledore's Pensieve to look at the memories of those who have had direct contact with Voldemort. Harry learns about Voldemort's family and his foe's evolution into a murderer obsessed not only with power but with gaining eternal life. Dumbledore shows Harry a memory involving Slughorn conversing with a young Tom Riddle at Hogwarts. The memory has clearly been tampered with. Dumbledore sets Harry the task of convincing Slughorn to give him the true memory so Dumbledore can confirm his suspicions about Voldemort's rise to power and near-invincibility.

Meanwhile, security tightens around the wizarding world now that everyone believes Voldemort has returned. Some people get murdered by Death Eaters. Harry finds several bits of proof that make him even more suspicious of Draco.

A few months later, after receiving an invitation to the funeral for Aragog the Acromantula, Harry uses an hour's dose of Felix Felicis and succeeds in retrieving Slughorn's unedited memory while at the funeral. Harry presents the memory to Dumbledore, and they watch it together. In it, Slughorn tells Riddle about the process of splitting one's soul and hiding it in several objects called Horcruxes. Only by committing a murder can a wizard turn an object into a Horcrux. Dumbledore tells Harry he suspects Voldemort has created six Horcruxes, making himself virtually immortal by placing a piece of his soul in each one and keeping the seventh within his body. Dumbledore explains that, in order to destroy Voldemort, all the Horcruxes must first be destroyed. Two Horcruxes, Riddle's diary from Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and a ring belonging to Voldemort's grandfather Marvolo Gaunt, have already been destroyed, but four others remain.

As Harry learns more about his great enemy, the love lives of the main characters become more active. Ron and Hermione grow closer together, but after learning from his sister Ginny that Hermione had previously kissed Viktor Krum, Ron is angered and shuns her. Harry attempts to repair things between the two but fails, resulting in Ron going out with Lavender Brown and making Hermione jealous. After Ron is nearly killed in an attempt on Dumbledore's life, he and Hermione reconcile. Ron and Lavender break up when Lavender sees the two of them walking out of the boys' dormitory together while Harry was under his father's Invisibility Cloak. Harry develops deep feelings for Ginny but is reluctant to pursue her for most of the year because of his friendship with Ron. Following a wild Gryffindor Quidditch victory, Harry and Ginny finally strike up a relationship of which Ron reluctantly approves.

Near the end of the year, Harry and Dumbledore journey to a remote cave far from Hogwarts to retrieve a suspected Horcrux, Slytherin's locket. Dumbledore finds a secret passageway to a large, pitch-black underground lake, which Harry and Dumbledore cross in a small boat to an island at the centre. The locket is at the bottom of a basin on the island and can only be reached if someone drinks the potion concealing it. Harry aids Dumbledore, who drinks the potion, which causes him to experience vivid hallucinations and torturous pain. Though Dumbledore is severely weakened after finishing the potion, the two manage to fight off Voldemort's Inferi that have been hiding in the lake. They take the locket and return to Hogwarts to find the Dark Mark hovering over the school's Astronomy Tower. Harry and Dumbledore ascend to the tower, where they are ambushed by Draco Malfoy, who is accompanied by Death Eaters he helped get inside Hogwarts. Dumbledore subdues Harry under his Invisibility Cloak with a freezing spell to keep him hidden. At the same time, Draco disarms Dumbledore and then threatens to kill him, which turns out to have been Draco's mission from Voldemort all along. Draco is unable to go through with it, and when Snape arrives, he kills Dumbledore instead. Harry ignores the battle raging in Hogwarts to pursue Dumbledore's killer. Snape successfully fights Harry off, and he reveals that he is the Half-Blood Prince before he, Draco, and the rest of the Death Eaters escape.

After Dumbledore's funeral, Harry decides to break up with Ginny, saying she would be in danger should their relationship continue. Later, Harry finds out the locket is not the real Horcrux. The fake Horcrux contains a note from someone named "R.A.B.". Harry is devastated by Dumbledore's death, and he tells his friends he will not return to Hogwarts. Instead, he says he will spend the next year searching out Voldemort's Horcruxes. Ron and Hermione insist on joining him in destroying Lord Voldemort for good.






Throughout the six previous novels in the series, the main character Harry Potter has struggled with the difficulties of adolescence along with being famous as the only person ever to survive the Killing Curse, Avada Kedavra. What the wizarding community found most impressive was that he was just a baby when this curse was inflicted. The curse was cast by the evil Tom Riddle, better known as Lord Voldemort, a powerful evil wizard who murdered Harry's parents and attempted to kill Harry as a baby in the belief this would frustrate a prophecy that Harry would become his equal. Lord Voldemort had not heard the full prophecy, so he did not know attacking Harry Potter would transfer power to him. As an orphan, Harry was placed in the care of his Muggle (non-magical) relatives Petunia Dursley and Vernon Dursley.

In The Philosopher's Stone, Harry re-enters the wizarding world at age 11 and enrolls in Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He makes friends with fellow students Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger and is mentored by the school's headmaster, Albus Dumbledore. He also meets Professor Severus Snape, who intensely dislikes and bullies him. Harry fights Voldemort several times while at school as the wizard tries to regain a physical form. In Goblet of Fire, Harry is mysteriously entered in a dangerous magical competition called the Triwizard Tournament, which he discovers is a trap designed to allow the return of Lord Voldemort to full strength. During Order of the Phoenix, Harry and several of his friends face off against Voldemort's Death Eaters, a group of Dark witches and wizards, and narrowly defeat them. In Half-Blood Prince, Harry learns that Voldemort has divided his soul into several parts, creating "Horcruxes" from various unknown objects to contain them. In this way, he has ensured his immortality as long as at least one of the Horcruxes still exists.[3] Two of these had already been destroyed: a diary destroyed by Harry in Chamber of Secrets and a ring destroyed by Dumbledore shortly before the events of Half-Blood Prince. Dumbledore takes Harry along in the attempt to destroy a third Horcrux contained in a locket. However, the Horcrux had been taken by an unknown wizard, and upon their return, Dumbledore is ambushed and disarmed by Draco Malfoy, although Draco cannot bring himself to kill Dumbledore. Dumbledore is subsequently killed by Snape, who finishes what Malfoy started.

Following Albus Dumbledore's death, Voldemort consolidates support and power, including by attempting to take control of the Ministry of Magic. Meanwhile, Harry is about to turn seventeen, at which time he will lose the protection of his home. Members of the Order of the Phoenix explain the situation to the Dursleys and move them to a new location for protection. Using several of Harry's peers and friends as decoys, the Order plans to move Harry to the Burrow under protection. Due to perceived infiltration of communication by the Death Eaters, members of the Order decide that Harry must be flown to the Burrow. However, the Death Eaters have been tipped off about this plan, and the group is attacked upon departure. In the ensuing battle, "Mad-Eye" Moody and Hedwig are killed and George Weasley severely wounded. Voldemort himself arrives to kill Harry, but Harry's wand fends him off of its own.

At the Burrow, Harry, Ron, and Hermione make preparations to abandon Hogwarts and hunt down Voldemort's four remaining Horcruxes but have few clues as to their identities and locations. They also inherit strange bequests from among Dumbledore's possessions: a Golden Snitch for Harry, a Deluminator for Ron, and a book of short tales collectively called The Tales of Beedle the Bard for Hermione. During Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, the Ministry of Magic finally falls to Voldemort, with a Death Eater assuming the position of Minister for Magic, and the wedding is attacked by Death Eaters. Harry, Ron, and Hermione flee to 12 Grimmauld Place in London, the family home of Sirius Black that Harry inherited a year before.

Harry and Hermione continue the quest for the Horcruxes, discovering more about Dumbledore's past, including the death of Dumbledore's younger sister and his connection to the dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald. They travel to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace, and meet the elderly magical historian Bathilda Bagshot. However, they discover that the real Bathilda has been killed, and it is instead Nagini in disguise. The snake attacks, and they barely escape to Forest of Dean, but Harry's wand is damaged beyond repair in the fight. A mysterious silver doe Patronus guides Harry to a pond containing the Sword of Hogwarts co-founder Godric Gryffindor, one of the few objects able to destroy Horcruxes. When Harry tries to recover the sword, the locket Horcrux tries to kill him. Ron, who was guided back to Harry and Hermione by the Deluminator, saves him and destroys the locket using the sword.

Hermione identifies in Dumbledore's book a symbol also worn at Bill and Fleur's wedding by Xenophilius Lovegood, the father of fellow Hogwarts student Luna Lovegood. They visit Xenophilius and are told the symbol represents the mythical Deathly Hallows, three objects from an old fairy tale titled The Tale of the Three Brothers: the Elder Wand, an unbeatable wand; the Resurrection Stone, which is able to summon the dead; and an infallible Invisibility Cloak. After noticing inconsistencies in his behavior, however, the trio realise that Xenophilius is stalling to allow Death Eaters to catch Harry, in exchange for his daughter Luna Lovegood's freedom. After a near miss, the three analyze the information provided by Xenophilius. Although Ron and Hermione are skeptical, Harry believes the Hallows are real and suspects Voldemort is hunting the Elder Wand, believing it to be in Dumbledore's possession after defeating Grindelwald. The description of the third Hallow also matches that of his own inherited Invisibility Cloak.

The trio are captured by Snatchers and taken to Malfoy Manor. Ron and Harry are imprisoned, and Bellatrix tortures Hermione, believing they stole Gryffindor's sword from her vault at Gringotts. With the help of Dobby the house-elf, they escape to Bill and Fleur's house along with fellow prisoners Luna Lovegood, wandmaker Mr. Ollivander, Dean Thomas, and the goblin Griphook. During the escape, Peter Pettigrew is strangled by his own silver hand after Harry reminds him of his debts, and Dobby is killed by Bellatrix. At Bill and Fleur's, they devise a plan to break into Bellatrix's vault at Gringotts, believing another Horcrux to be hidden there as well. While there, Harry's suspicions are confirmed when he has a vision of Voldemort breaking open Dumbledore's tomb and stealing the Elder Wand. With Griphook's help, they succeed in breaking in, retrieving Hufflepuff's golden cup, and escape on a dragon that was guarding Bellatrix's vault. In the chaos, Griphook steals the Sword of Gryffindor from them. Harry has another vision of Voldemort and sees that Voldemort now understands their plan and intends to protect the Horcruxes even further but also confirms the unidentified Horcrux is at Hogwarts.

They enter the school through a secret entrance in the Hog's Head, a bar in Hogsmeade owned by Dumbledore's brother Aberforth. Harry alerts the teachers that Voldemort is planning an assault on the school, and they mobilize the student body to defend Hogwarts and buy Harry time to locate the Horcrux. After speaking with the ghost of Ravenclaw, Rowena Ravenclaw's daughter, Harry confirms that the Horcrux is Ravenclaw's lost diadem, and he recalls such a diadem being hidden in the Room of Requirement. Meanwhile, Ron and Hermione destroy Hufflepuff's cup with basilisk fangs taken from the Chamber of Secrets as Voldemort and his army besiege the castle. They find the diadem but are ambushed by Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle. Crabbe tries to kill them using Fiendfyre, a cursed fire, but is unable to control it; the fire destroys the diadem and kills Crabbe. Meanwhile, many are killed in the Battle of Hogwarts, including Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, Colin Creevey, and Fred Weasley.

In his encampment, Voldemort feels the Elder Wand is not performing as he expected. Reasoning that Snape, having killed Dumbledore is the true owner of the Elder Wand, Voldemort murders Snape. Harry arrives as Snape is dying, and Snape passes him memories to view in the Pensieve. They reveal Snape had a lifelong love for Harry's mother, and despite hating Harry's father, he agreed at Dumbledore's request to act as a double agent against Voldemort. He had been watching over the trio as they searched for the Horcruxes, conjuring the doe Patronus. It is also revealed that Dumbledore was slowly dying after mishandling the ring Horcrux, and his "murder" by Snape was planned to prove Snape's allegiance to Voldemort. The memories also explain that Harry himself is a Horcrux, and therefore he must die at Voldemort's hands if Voldemort is to become mortal, which Voldemort does not know. Harry accepts his death and gives himself up to Voldemort, telling Neville Longbottom that Voldemort's snake Nagini, another Horcrux, must be killed. On the way, he finally manages to open the Snitch and uses the Resurrection Stone within to seek comfort and courage from his dead loved ones. Voldemort uses the Killing Curse, and Harry does not defend himself.

Harry awakens in a dreamlike location resembling King's Cross station and is greeted by Dumbledore. He explains that Voldemort's original Killing Curse left a fragment of Voldemort's soul in Harry, which caused the connection they felt and made Harry an unintended Horcrux. The fragment had been destroyed by the Killing Curse, allowing Harry the choice to return to life or to "go on." Dumbledore also admits some of his mysterious history, in which his friendship with Gellert Grindelwald resulted in the murder of his younger sister Ariana and estrangement from Aberforth. Harry chooses to return to life and feigns death. Voldemort calls for a truce at Hogwarts and displays Harry's body, offering to spare most of the defenders if they surrender. Neville, however, pulls the Sword of Gryffindor out of the Sorting Hat and uses it to behead Nagini, leaving Voldemort unprotected by Horcruxes.

Harry escapes under his cloak as the battle resumes. In a final onslaught, Bellatrix is killed by Molly Weasley by using the blast to oblivion spell, and Harry reveals himself to Voldemort. He explains to Voldemort the Elder Wand's loyalty transfers upon the defeat, not necessarily the killing, of its previous master. Harry also reveals that Snape had never been the Elder Wand's master because Draco Malfoy had disarmed Dumbledore before Snape arrived to kill him, and Harry had disarmed Draco at Malfoy Manor weeks prior. Voldemort attempts one final Killing Curse on Harry, but the Elder Wand refuses to act against its true master and the spell rebounds, killing Voldemort. Harry uses the Elder Wand to repair his original wand, intending to return the Elder Wand to Dumbledore's tomb, where its power will vanish if Harry dies undefeated. However, he plans to keep the Invisibility Cloak he inherited. The wizarding world returns to peace once more.

In an epilogue set in King's Cross station 19 years later, the primary characters are seeing their own children off to Hogwarts. Harry and Ginny have three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. Ron and Hermione also have two children, Rose and Hugo. Harry's godson Teddy Lupin is found kissing Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's daughter Victoire; Neville Longbottom is now a Hogwarts professor; and Draco Malfoy and his wife are also at the station to send off their son, Scorpius. Albus is departing for his first year at Hogwarts and worries he will be placed in Slytherin House. Harry reassures him by telling his son he is named after two Hogwarts headmasters, one of them a Slytherin and "the bravest man he had ever met," and that the Sorting Hat could also take account of personal preferences as it did for Harry. Harry also notes that his scar has not hurt in nineteen years and all is well.

Harry Potter has been living an ordinary life, constantly abused by his surly and cold aunt and uncle, Vernon and Petunia Dursley and bullied by their spoiled son Dudley since the death of his parents ten years prior. His life changes on the day of his eleventh birthday when he receives a letter of acceptance into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, delivered by a half-giant named Rubeus Hagrid after previous letters had been destroyed by Vernon and Petunia. Hagrid details Harry's past as the son of James and Lily Potter, who were a wizard and witch respectively, and how they were murdered by the most evil and powerful dark wizard of all time, Lord Voldemort, which resulted in the one-year-old Harry being sent to live with his aunt and uncle. Voldemort was not only unable to kill Harry, but his powers were also destroyed in the attempt, forcing him into exile and sparking Harry's immense fame among the magical community.

Hagrid introduces Harry to the wizarding world by bringing him to Diagon Alley, a hidden street in London where Harry uncovers a fortune left to him by his parents at Gringotts Wizarding Bank, receives a pet owl, Hedwig, various school supplies, and a wand. There, he is surprised to discover how famous he truly is among witches and wizards. A month later, Harry leaves the Dursleys' home to catch the Hogwarts Express from King's Cross railway station's secret Hogwarts platform, Platform ​9 3⁄4. On the train, he quickly befriends fellow first-year Ronald Weasley and the two boys meet Hermione Granger, whose snobbiness and affinity for spells initially causes the two boys to dislike her. There, Harry also makes an enemy of yet another first-year, Draco Malfoy, who shows prejudice against Ron for his family's financial difficulties.

Arriving at Hogwarts, the first-years are assigned by the magical Sorting Hat to Houses that best suit their personalities, the four Houses being Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw. Harry hears from Ron about Slytherin's dark reputation which is known to house potential dark witches and wizards, and thus objects to being sorted into Slytherin despite the Hat claiming that Harry has potential to develop under that House. He winds up in Gryffindor with Ron and Hermione, while Draco is sorted into Slytherin like his family before him.

As classes begin at Hogwarts, Harry discovers his innate talent for flying on broomsticks despite no prior experience, and is recruited into his House's team for Quidditch (a competitive wizards' sport sharing similarities to football, but played on flying broomsticks) as a Seeker. He also comes to dislike the school's Potions master, Severus Snape, who is also the Head of Slytherin House who acts with bias in favour of members of his House while perpetually looking for opportunities to fail Harry and his friends. Malfoy tricks Harry and Ron into a duel in the trophy room to get them out of their rooms at night and secretly tells Filch, the school's caretaker, where they will be. Hermione unintentionally is forced to come along after her failed attempts to stop them, and they find Gryffindor student Neville Longbottom asleep outside the common area because he had forgotten the password to get in. After realizing the duel was a set-up to get them in trouble, they run away. They then discover a huge three-headed dog standing guard over a trapdoor in a forbidden corridor. The school's Halloween celebrations are interrupted by the entrance of a troll into the school, which enters the girls' bathroom where Hermione was. However, she is saved by Harry and Ron and, as a result, Hermione is grateful and the three become best friends. Coupled with Snape's recent leg injury as well as behaviour, the recent events prompt Harry, Hermione and Ron to suspect him to be looking for a way to enter the trapdoor.

Hermione forbids the boys from investigating for fear of expulsion, and instead makes Harry direct his attention to his first ever Quidditch game, where his broomstick begins to lose control and threatens to throw him off. This leads Hermione to suspect that Snape had jinxed Harry's broom, due to his strange behaviour during the match. After the excitement of winning the match has died down, Christmas arrives and Harry receives an invisibility cloak from an anonymous source claiming that the cloak belonged to Harry's father. Using the cloak to explore the school at night to investigate what is under the trapdoor, he discovers the Mirror of Erised, in which the viewer sees his or her deepest desires come true.

A visit to Hagrid's hut at the foot of the school leads the trio to find a newspaper report stating there had been an attempted robbery of a Gringotts vault—the same vault that Hagrid and Harry had visited when the latter was getting his school supplies. A further indiscretion from Hagrid allows them to work out that the object kept under that trapdoor is a Philosopher's Stone, which grants its user immortality as well as the ability to turn any metal into pure gold. Harry is also informed by a centaur named Firenze in the forest that a plot to steal the Stone is being orchestrated by none other than Voldemort himself, who schemes to use it to be restored back to his body and return to power. When the school's headmaster Albus Dumbledore is lured from Hogwarts under false pretences, Harry, Hermione and Ron fear that the theft is imminent and descend through the trapdoor themselves.

They encounter a series of obstacles, each of which requires unique skills possessed by one of the three, one of which requires Ron to sacrifice himself in a life-sized game of wizard's chess. In the final room, Harry, now alone, finds Quirinus Quirrell, the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, who reveals he had been the one working behind the scenes to kill Harry by first jinxing his broom and then letting a troll into the school, while Snape had been trying to protect Harry instead. Quirrell is helping Voldemort, whose face has sprouted on the back of Quirrell's head but is constantly concealed by his oversized turban, to attain the Philosopher's Stone so as to restore his body. Quirrell uses Harry to get past the final obstacle, the Mirror of Erised, by forcing him to stand before the Mirror. It recognises Harry's lack of greed for the Stone and surreptitiously deposits it into his pocket. As Quirrell attempts to seize the stone and kill Harry, his flesh burns on contact with the boy's skin and breaks into blisters. Harry's scar suddenly burns with pain and he passes out.

Three days later, he awakens in the school's infirmary, where Dumbledore explains his survival against Voldemort is due to his mother's sacrificing her life in order for him to live. This left a powerful protective charm on Harry that lives in his blood, which caused Quirrell's hands to burn on contact with Harry due to him being possessed by hatred and greed. He also reveals himself as the one who sent Harry his father's invisibility cloak, while Quirrell has been left to die by Voldemort, who still lives, and the Stone has now been destroyed. The eventful school year ends at the final feast, during which Gryffindor wins the House Cup. Harry returns to Privet Drive for the summer, neglecting to tell the Dursleys that the use of spells is forbidden by under-aged wizards and witches and thus anticipating some fun and peace over the holidays.






On Harry Potter's twelfth birthday, the Dursley family—Harry's uncle Vernon, aunt Petunia, and cousin Dudley—hold a dinner party for a potential client of Vernon's drill-manufacturing company. Harry is not invited but is content to spend the evening quietly in his bedroom, although he is confused why his school friends have not sent cards or presents. However, while in his room, a house-elf named Dobby warns him not to return to Hogwarts and admits to intercepting Harry's post from his friends. Having failed to persuade Harry to voluntarily give up his place at Hogwarts, Dobby then attempts to get him expelled by using magic to smash Aunt Petunia's dessert on the kitchen floor and framing Harry, who is not allowed to use magic outside school. Uncle Vernon's business deal falls through, but Harry is given a second chance from the Ministry of Magic and allowed to return at the start of the school year.

In the meantime, Uncle Vernon punishes Harry, fitting locks to his bedroom door and bars to the windows. However, Harry’s best friend Ron Weasley arrives with his twin brothers Fred and George in their father Arthur’s enchanted Ford Anglia. They rescue Harry, who stays at the Weasley's family home, the Burrow, for the remainder of his holidays. Harry and the other Weasleys—mother Molly, third-eldest son Percy, and daughter Ginny (who has a crush on Harry)—travel to Diagon Alley. They are then reunited with Hermione Granger and introduced to Lucius Malfoy, father of Harry’s school nemesis Draco, and Gilderoy Lockhart, a conceited autobiographer who has been appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor after the death of Professor Quirrell. When Harry and Ron approach Platform 93⁄4. in King's Cross station, it refuses to allow them to pass. They decide to fly Arthur’s car to Hogwarts after missing the train when they cannot get through the barrier. Harry and Ron crash into a Whomping Willow on the grounds.

In punishment for the crash, Ron cleans the school trophies, and Harry helps Professor Lockhart, whose classes are chaotic, with addressing his fan mail. Harry learns of some wizards' prejudice about blood status in terms of “pure” blood (only wizarding heritage) and those with Muggle (non-magical) parentage. He is alone in hearing an unnerving voice seemingly coming from the walls of the school itself. During a deathday party for Gryffindor House’s ghost Nearly Headless Nick, Harry, Ron, and Hermione run into the school caretaker Argus Filch’s petrified cat, Mrs. Norris, along with a warning scrawled on the wall: “The Chamber of Secrets has been opened. Enemies of the heir, beware.”

Rumours fly around the school regarding the Chamber of Secrets' history. Harry and his friends discover from Cuthbert Binns, the ghostly professor of History of Magic, that it allegedly houses a terrible monster and was created by one of the school’s founders, Salazar Slytherin, after a fundamental disagreement with the other founders (Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, and Rowena Ravenclaw). Slytherin believed students of non-magical parentage should be refused entry to the school. During a Quidditch game, a Bludger, one of the balls involved in Quidditch, chases after Harry instead of zigzagging toward any player it can hit. The rogue Bludger breaks Harry's arm. In an attempt to mend it, Lockhart accidentally removes all the bones from Harry's broken arm, which requires an overnight stay in the hospital wing to heal. Dobby returns in the middle of the night to visit Harry in the hospital wing, revealing that it was he who charmed the Bludger and sealed the gateway at King’s Cross and that the Chamber of Secrets was opened before. Another attack occurs, this time on a first-year Gryffindor named Colin Creevey, who idolises Harry, and the school goes into a state of panic. A duelling class is then set up for the students (led by Lockhart and Potions master/Head of Slytherin House Severus Snape), during which it is revealed that Harry is a 'Parselmouth', meaning he has the rare ability to speak to snakes.

This sparks rumours yet again because students around the school suspect Harry is the Heir of Slytherin (Salazar Slytherin was also a Parselmouth). Circumstantial evidence to support this theory arrives in the form of another attack, this time on Hufflepuff second-year Justin Finch-Fletchley and Nearly Headless Nick. Harry, Ron, and Hermione begin to suspect Draco Malfoy is behind the attacks, given his family history of remaining well within Slytherin ranks and open hostility toward Muggle-born students. After talking about their speculations, Hermione concocts Polyjuice Potion, which allows Harry and Ron to look like Draco’s boorish lackeys, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, for an hour. Harry and Ron use this hour to interrogate Draco. This comes to nothing because Draco’s father only told his son the general facts of the previous opening of the Chamber and that it occurred fifty years previously. Meanwhile, "Moaning" Myrtle Warren, an existentially mopey ghost that haunts a girls' bathroom at Hogwarts, unwittingly provides a new clue in the form of a diary deposited in her stall. The trio discover the diary belonged to Tom Riddle, a student who knows all too well about the Chamber, having been witness to a fellow student’s death while the Chamber was opened fifty years ago. The culprit, Riddle reveals to Harry, was none other than Rubeus Hagrid, now gamekeeper for Hogwarts. When Hermione is attacked next, alongside a Ravenclaw prefect, the school is put on lockdown, and headmaster Albus Dumbledore and Hagrid are forced to leave.

Fortunately for Harry and Ron, Hagrid left a set of instructions: follow the spiders currently fleeing into the Forbidden Forest. They do this, only to find the monster that was blamed for the attacks fifty years before, a massive Acromantula named Aragog, who explains to them that the real monster is one spiders fear above all others. When Harry and Ron try to leave, Aragog says they cannot leave because his sons and daughters have not eaten for a long time and plan to eat the boys. Before the spiders can grab them, Arthur's Ford Anglia arrives, and the boys use the car to escape. Hermione provides the last set of clues that inform them of the monster’s identity: a basilisk, (hence Harry’s ability to understand it) that kills with a stare (although no one is dead because of various devices through which they indirectly saw the monster) and that spiders (such as Aragog and his offspring) fear above all others. Harry figures out from hints Aragog dropped that the student who died during the previous attacks was Myrtle, and when Ginny is taken by the monster into the Chamber, Harry and Ron discover that the entrance is in the bathroom they have been using to make Polyjuice Potion. Harry, Ron, and Lockhart enter the Chamber, but the dunderheaded professor (who reveals that he is a fraud) causes a rockfall while attempting to erase the boys’ memories with Ron’s damaged wand, permanently losing his memory in the process.

Separated from Ron, Harry enters the Chamber of Secrets alone to find an unconscious Ginny and Tom Riddle, who claims to be a memory preserved in his diary for the last fifty years. Riddle shows Harry that his full name, Tom Marvolo Riddle, can be made into the anagram "I am Lord Voldemort." Tom Riddle is in fact Voldemort's true name, and it was he who opened the Chamber fifty years before and framed Hagrid. Riddle is the true Heir of Slytherin. By possessing Ginny through his diary, Riddle has been continuing what he started fifty years before. Harry's loyalty to Dumbledore in the face of Riddle summons Dumbledore's phoenix Fawkes, who arrives with the Sorting Hat. Fawkes blinds the basilisk, allowing Harry to remove the Sword of Godric Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and slay the creature. Though fatally poisoned by the basilisk, Fawkes's healing tears save Harry, who uses a basilisk fang to stab Riddle's diary. Both the diary and Riddle are destroyed, and Ginny is restored.

Harry, Ron, Ginny, and Lockhart return to the main castle and reunite with McGonagall, Dumbledore, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Ginny, whose possession by Voldemort caused all of the petrification and troubles over the course of the year, is given a reprieve by Dumbledore. He reasons that greater wizards have been duped by Voldemort before and takes great interest in the qualities of the diary, which Harry gives to him. Lucius Malfoy bursts in after this meeting, demanding to know why and how Dumbledore has returned to the school. He is accompanied by Dobby, revealing that Dobby is enslaved to the Malfoys. The house-elf also provides Harry with unspoken clues regarding the diary’s ownership. Although it was Tom Riddle’s, it had been in the Malfoys’ possession. While in Diagon Alley over the summer, Lucius, a follower of Voldemort, had slipped the diary into Ginny's cauldron to ensure the reopening of the Chamber of Secrets. Harry returns the diary, devising a scenario involving his own sock that frees Dobby from the Malfoys’ employment, hence provoking an attack on Harry. Dobby jumps in and saves Harry. The petrified students are cured, the end-of-year exams are cancelled (much to Hermione’s chagrin), Hagrid returns in the middle of the final feast, Lockhart is discharged from his job as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, and Harry returns to Privet Drive in higher spirits than he last left it.






Harry is back at the Dursley's for the summer holidays, where he sees on Muggle television that a convict named Sirius Black has escaped from prison. After the Dursley's Aunt Marge personally insults Harry, Harry accidentally inflates her, then runs away from home, fearing expulsion from school. After being picked up by the Knight Bus and meeting Stan Shunpike, he travels to the Leaky Cauldron, where Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic, asks Harry to stay in Diagon Alley for his own protection. While there, he meets his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger.

Before leaving for Hogwarts, Harry learns from Arthur Weasley that Sirius Black is a convicted murderer from the wizarding world and that Black has escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban to kill Harry. On the way to Hogwarts, a Dementor (an Azkaban prison guard that feeds on positive thoughts) boards the train, causing Harry to relive his parents' deaths before fainting. The new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Remus Lupin, protects Harry, Ron, and Hermione from the Dementor. They later learn Dementors will be patrolling the school in an attempt to catch Black. Although Professor Lupin is popular with his students, the Potions master, Snape, seems to hate him.

During a Quidditch match, Harry faints and falls off his broomstick after Dementors invade the field. Dumbledore did not want the dementors to enter Hogwarts and was furious. His Nimbus 2000 is blown away and smashed by the Whomping Willow, a violent tree in the grounds. Afterward, Professor Lupin teaches Harry how to defend himself from Dementors using the Patronus charm. Harry wants to be taught by Lupin because he made the dementors go away on the train to Hogwarts.

Ron and Hermione's friendship later suffers when Ron believes Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, to have eaten his rat, Scabbers. Hermione also gets Harry's new anonymously given Christmas present, a top-of-the-range Firebolt broomstick, confiscated for fear it might be jinxed by Sirius Black. Hermione becomes severely stressed by her many classes, some of which seem to occur at the same time, a detail which she refuses to explain to Harry and Ron.

Meanwhile, Hagrid's hippogriff Buckbeak is in danger of being executed by the Ministry of Magic after injuring Draco Malfoy, who provoked Buckbeak. His father Lucius Malfoy tries to obtain justice for his son's injury. Despite Hermione's and Ron's efforts to defend the hippogriff, they and Harry seemingly hear Buckbeak executed as they leave Hagrid's hut. While visiting Hagrid's, however, Hermione discovers Scabbers hiding there. Hagrid gives scabbers back to Ron and Hermione tells Ron to apologize for blaming her cat for eating him. Then a rock is thrown to their direction

Scabbers escapes from Ron, who gives chase. The large black dog appears and attacks Ron, then drags him into a tunnel under the Whomping Willow. Crookshanks (who seems to be in league with the dog), Harry, and Hermione follow them through the tunnel and to the Shrieking Shack, a haunted house in Hogsmeade. They discover that the dog is Sirius Black in animal form. Harry disarms Black and intends to kill him but finds he cannot.

Lupin enters and embraces Black as a friend. He explains that, although he believed Black to have betrayed the Potters, he realises now that it was Peter Pettigrew. He admits he is a werewolf and that, while at school, his friends (Black, Pettigrew, and Harry's father, James Potter) learned to transform into animals to keep Lupin company during his transformations. Lupin explains that Scabbers is Pettigrew in his animal form. Pettigrew faked his own death, framing Black for the murders, and has been hiding from Black since his escape from Azkaban.

Snape, who still holds a childhood grudge against Lupin and his friends, arrives to apprehend Black but is knocked unconscious by Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who now believe Black to be innocent. Lupin and Black transform Pettigrew into human form and prepare to kill him, but Harry stops them because he feels his father would not have wanted it. He convinces Lupin and Black to send Pettigrew to Azkaban instead.

As they attempt to bring Pettigrew back to Hogwarts, the full moon transforms Lupin into a wolf. Lupin, not in his own mind, attacks them. In the confusion, Pettigrew transforms into a rat and escapes. Harry, Hermione, and Black are chased to the shore of the lake, where they are set upon by Dementors. They are rescued by a Patronus cast by a figure on the opposite shore, whom Harry thinks is his father.

Reawakening later in the hospital wing, Harry and Hermione are told that Black has been sentenced to have his soul sucked out by Dementors, a fate worse than death known as the Dementor's Kiss. Professor Dumbledore tells Harry and Hermione to use Hermione's time-turner, a device she has been using to attend her simultaneous classes, to go back in time and save Buckbeak and Sirius. They rescue Buckbeak from execution and later watch themselves attacked by Dementors at the lake. Harry realises that the figure he saw was not his father but himself, and he casts the Patronus charm that drives away the Dementors. Harry and Hermione ride Buckbeak to the tower where Black is being held and break him out. Black escapes on Buckbeak.

Harry and Hermione return to the hospital wing to close the timeline. Enraged by the escape of Black, Snape lets slip that Lupin is a werewolf, forcing him to resign. Harry returns to Kings Cross with his friends and receives a letter from Black, giving him permission to visit Hogsmeade next year.






Throughout the three previous novels in the Harry Potter series, the main character, Harry Potter, has struggled with the difficulties of growing up and the added challenge of being a famed wizard. When Harry was a baby, Lord Voldemort, the most powerful dark wizard in history, killed Harry's parents but was mysteriously defeated after unsuccessfully trying to kill Harry, though his attempt left a lightning-shaped scar on Harry's forehead. This results in Harry's immediate fame and his being placed in the care of his abusive Muggle (non-magical) aunt and uncle, Petunia and Vernon Dursley, who have a son named Dudley.

On Harry's eleventh birthday, he learns he is a wizard from Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and enrols in Hogwarts. He befriends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger and confronts Lord Voldemort, who is trying to regain power. In Harry's first year, he has to protect the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort and one of his faithful followers at Hogwarts. After returning to school after summer break, students at Hogwarts are attacked by the legendary monster of the Chamber of Secrets after the Chamber is opened. Harry ends the attacks by killing a Basilisk and thwarting another attempt by Lord Voldemort to return to full strength. The following year, Harry hears he has been targeted by escaped mass murderer Sirius Black. Despite stringent security measures at Hogwarts, Harry encounters Black at the end of his third year and learns Black was framed and is actually Harry's godfather. He also learns that it was his father's old school friend Peter Pettigrew who betrayed his parents.

In a prologue, which Harry sees through a dream, Frank Bryce, Muggle caretaker of an abandoned mansion known as the Riddle House, is murdered by Lord Voldemort after stumbling upon him and Wormtail. Harry is awoken by his scar hurting.

The Weasleys invite Harry and Hermione Granger to the Quidditch World Cup, to which they travel using a Portkey, meeting Cedric Diggory, a Hufflepuff sixth-year, on the way. In the match, Ireland triumph over Bulgaria, despite the skill of Bulgaria's star seeker, Viktor Krum. Various Ministry of Magic employees at the World Cup discuss Bertha Jorkins, a Ministry worker who has gone missing. Her head-of-department, the charismatic Ludo Bagman, is unconcerned.

After the match, men wearing the masks of Death Eaters, followers of Voldemort, attack the camp site, causing terror and abusing the Muggle campsite owners. The Dark Mark is fired into the sky, causing mass panic. Harry discovers that his wand is missing. It is later found in the possession of Winky, Barty Crouch's house elf, and the wand is found to have been used to cast the Mark. Although very few believe Winky could have conjured the Mark, Barty Crouch dismisses Winky from his service. Hermione, angry at this injustice, forms a society to promote house elf rights, known as S.P.E.W. (Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare).

At Hogwarts, Professor Dumbledore announces that Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody will be the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for the year. Dumbledore also announces that Hogwarts will host a revival of the Triwizard Tournament, in which a champion of Hogwarts will compete against champions from two other European wizarding schools: Beauxbatons Academy, and Durmstrang Institute. The champions are chosen by the Goblet of Fire from names dropped into it. Because Harry is under 17 (the age of majority in the wizarding world), he is disallowed from entering.

At Halloween, the Goblet of Fire picks Fleur Delacour from Beauxbatons Academy, Viktor Krum, the Bulgaria seeker, from Durmstrang Institute, and Cedric Diggory from Hogwarts to compete in the tournament. Unexpectedly, however, it also chooses Harry as a fourth champion. Despite anger from the Beauxbatons and Durmstrang contingents, Harry's being chosen magically binds him to compete, forcing him to be an unwilling participant in the Tournament. Very few people believe Harry's protests that he did not put his own name in; Ron, envious of Harry again being the centre of attention, accuses Harry of lying and breaks up their friendship.

In their first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson, Professor Moody introduces the class to the Unforgivable Curses: the Imperius Curse, through which a wizard can be controlled as another wills; the Cruciatus Curse, which causes immense pain; and Avada Kedavra, the killing curse.

A tabloid-style reporter, Rita Skeeter, starts writing scandalous articles of half-truths and outright fabrications in The Daily Prophet about those at Hogwarts, starting with Harry. Because of the Prophet's high readership, her words hold a lot of sway among the wizarding population.

Despite champions not being allowed to know, Hagrid covertly reveals to Harry that the first task is to get past a dragon. Madame Maxime, the headmistress of Beauxbatons, and Professor Karkaroff, headmaster of Durmstrang, also discover this. Sure that they will tell their respective champions, Harry informs Cedric about the dragons in the interest of fairness. Harry struggles to think of a way past a dragon, until Moody suggests flying. Hermione helps him to perfect a Summoning Charm, which he uses to summon his Firebolt broomstick and fly past the dragon to retrieve a golden egg, receiving high marks from the judges. Ron and Harry subsequently reconcile, Ron now understanding the full danger of the tournament. Harry's egg is supposed to contain a clue to the next task, but when opened it merely shrieks loudly.

Hermione infiltrates the school kitchen as part of her house elf welfare campaign (in which she is finding few allies and much resistance). She takes Harry and Ron there to meet Dobby, who now works there after his freeing in Harry's second year. They also find a distraught Winky, who is seriously depressed after being sacked. Dobby is the only known house elf to appreciate his freedom, despite his hardworking nature; the others reject Hermione's idea of payment and holidays, which they find distressing.

The students are informed of the Yule Ball, a Triwizard Tournament tradition, which requires Harry to find a partner with whom to open the dance. He eventually asks Cho Chang, a Ravenclaw fifth-year with whom he is smitten, but she has already agreed to go with Cedric. Ultimately, Harry asks Parvati and Padma Patil to go with him and Ron. Hermione, offended that Ron did not consider her except as a last resort, attends with Viktor Krum, causing intense jealousy in Ron. At the ball, Cedric tells Harry to take the egg into the bath in the prefects' bathroom to work out the clue, but Harry is reluctant to accept the advice because he is jealous over Cho.

Rita Skeeter writes an article revealing Hagrid's half-giant parentage (though it is a mystery how she found out), a taboo in the wizarding world. After Hermione confronts her, Skeeter writes articles painting Hermione as Harry's unfaithful girlfriend. After masses of hate mail, Hermione swears revenge on Skeeter.

The trio secretly meet Sirius at Hogsmeade, who tells them that Barty Crouch was fanatical about catching dark wizards, often stooping to the same level to punish them. This culminated in Crouch sending his own son to Azkaban. His son later died there. Sirius suspects that someone is attempting to attack Harry through the Tournament and make it look like an accident. He suspects Karkaroff, who is a former Death Eater who walked free.

Finally acting on Cedric's tip, Harry takes the egg to the prefects' bathroom by night, where with help from Moaning Myrtle he listens to the egg underwater. There, the shrieks become the words of a song, which tells Harry that the task is to recover something dear to him from Merpeople at the bottom of the lake in the grounds. While sneaking back to Gryffindor Tower under his invisibility cloak, he sees Barty Crouch in Snape's office on the Marauder's Map, despite Crouch supposedly being too ill to judge the Triwizard Tournament. While investigating, Harry falls into a trick step and drops the egg, which shrieks loudly and attracts Filch, Snape (who has had potion ingredients stolen), and Moody. Moody's magical eye sees Harry stuck in the stair under his cloak, but Moody covers for him, then borrows the Marauder's Map.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione are unable to find a way to survive underwater for the second task, leaving Harry panic-stricken. He is rescued on the morning of the task by Dobby, who gives him some Gillyweed that he heard Moody and Professor Sprout talking about. The Gillyweed gives Harry flippers and gills and allows him to find Ron at the bottom of the lake. However, he refuses to leave the hostages belonging to the other champions behind, and insists on rescuing Fleur's sister when Fleur does not arrive. Although Harry finishes last, the judges (apart from Karkaroff) still award him high marks for 'moral fibre.'

One month before the final task, Harry and Krum are talking near the Forbidden Forest when they encounter Barty Crouch, who stopped appearing to work at the Ministry several months ago. Although insane, in moments of clarity he confesses to have done 'something terrible,' that Bertha Jorkins is dead, and begs for Dumbledore. Leaving Krum with Crouch, Harry fetches Dumbledore but returns to find Krum stunned and Crouch gone, Krum claiming that Crouch attacked him from behind. Moody gives chase but does not find Crouch.

During a Divination lesson, Harry experiences another dream involving Voldemort punishing Wormtail for a 'mistake.' Harry tells Dumbledore about this, and stumbles upon a memory-keeping device in Dumbledore's office, a Pensieve. Inside the Pensieve, he discovers that Ludo Bagman was accused and acquitted of Death Eater activity, and that Barty Crouch's son was sent to Azkaban for supposedly helping to torture Neville Longbottom's parents into insanity.

Harry prepares for the final task, a hedge maze filled with dangerous creatures and obstacles, the goal being to reach the Triwizard Cup at the centre. Inside the maze, Harry stuns Krum, who was using the Cruciatus Curse on Cedric. Helping each other, the two reach the Cup. They agree to touch it at the same time and become joint winners. However, on touching it they discover that it is a Portkey that transports them to a graveyard. There, Wormtail appears, kills Cedric using Voldemort's wand, and ties up Harry. Wormtail uses Harry's blood, Tom Riddle Sr.'s bone, and his own hand to restore Lord Voldemort to a body.

Voldemort, alive again, summons his Death Eaters, berates them for believing him dead, and mentions that he has a single 'faithful servant' concealed at Hogwarts, who has led Harry to the graveyard for the resurrection. He tortures Harry, then challenges him to a duel to prove his prowess. However, when he and Harry fire spells at each other, their wands connect unexpectedly, causing echoes of Voldemort's previous magic to appear, including manifestations of Cedric and Harry's parents. These echoes provide a distraction for Harry, who escapes with Cedric's body to the Cup, which takes him back to Hogwarts.

Under the panic caused by his arrival, Moody takes a traumatised Harry to his office. He reveals himself to be Voldemort's 'faithful servant.' He explains that he put Harry's name into the Goblet of Fire under a different school and has been guiding him through the tournament to ensure he would touch the Cup first: he gave him the hint about flying, staged a conversation about Gillyweed in front of Dobby, cursed obstacles from outside the hedge maze, and used the Imperius Curse on Krum to force him to curse Cedric. As Moody prepares to kill Harry, Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Snape intervene and stun Moody. Slowly, Moody changes appearance to become Barty Crouch Jr., the supposedly long-dead son of Barty Crouch Sr., who was using Polyjuice Potion to impersonate Moody.

Using Veritaserum, a truth potion, they learn that Barty Crouch Sr. rescued his son from Azkaban as a favour to his dying wife: the Crouch Jr. who died in Azkaban was his mother, disguised under Polyjuice Potion. Crouch Jr. was kept imprisoned at home. Winky convinced Crouch Sr. to allow Crouch Jr. to see the Quidditch World Cup, where he stole Harry's wand, escaped, and conjured the Dark Mark. Wormtail, meanwhile, had captured Bertha Jorkins, who had once seen Crouch Jr. at home and been bewitched to forget. This allowed Voldemort to discover Crouch Jr.'s whereabouts, then formulate a plan to install Crouch at Hogwarts and lead Harry to him. Crouch Sr. was imprisoned by Wormtail, and when he escaped to Hogwarts, Crouch Jr. killed him.

Dumbledore explains that Harry's and Voldemort's wands connected because they share a core of a feather from the same phoenix, coincidentally Dumbledore's own phoenix Fawkes.

Dumbledore announces Lord Voldemort's return to the school. However, many people, including Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, refuse to believe it. Fudge hastily has the Dementor's Kiss performed on Crouch Jr., who is thus unable to give testimony proving Voldemort's return. Dumbledore puts his own anti-Voldemort plans into action.

Hermione discovers Rita Skeeter is an unregistered Animagus who can take the form of a beetle, allowing her to eavesdrop on secrets. She blackmails Skeeter to force her to stop writing her libelous stories. Not wanting his tournament winnings, Harry gives all one thousand Galleons to Fred and George to start their joke shop, and returns home with the Dursleys.






During the summer holidays with his aunt Petunia and uncle Vernon, 15-year-old Harry Potter and his cousin Dudley are attacked by Dementors. After openly using magic to save Dudley and himself, Harry is expelled from Hogwarts, but his expulsion is postponed pending a hearing at the Ministry of Magic. Harry is whisked off by a group of wizards including Mad-Eye Moody, Remus Lupin, and several new faces, including Nymphadora Tonks, a bubbly young Metamorphmagus (a witch or wizard who can change his or her appearance without a potion or spell), and Kingsley Shacklebolt, a senior Auror, to Number 12, Grimmauld Place, the childhood home of Sirius Black. The building also serves as the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, of which Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Sirius are also members. Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger explain that the Order is a secret organisation led by Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore dedicated to fighting Lord Voldemort and his followers, the Death Eaters. From the members of the Order, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny Weasley and Fred and George Weasley learn that Voldemort is seeking an object he did not have prior to his first defeat and assume this object to be a weapon of some sort. Harry learns the Ministry of Magic, led by Cornelius Fudge, is refusing to acknowledge Voldemort's return because of the panic and chaos doing so would cause. Harry also learns the Daily Prophet has been running a smear campaign against him and Dumbledore. At the hearing, Harry is cleared when Dumbledore provides evidence that Harry was fully within his rights to use magic against the Dementors, but refuses to make direct eye contact with him.

At Hogwarts, Dolores Umbridge, a senior employee in the Ministry of Magic, becomes the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Umbridge and Harry clash because she, like Fudge, refuses to believe Voldemort has returned. She punishes Harry for his rebellious outbursts by having him write "I must not tell lies" with a cursed quill that carves the phrase into the back of his hand. She also refuses to teach her students how to perform defensive spells, prompting Harry, Ron, and Hermione to form their own Defence Against the Dark Arts group with students from Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, and Hufflepuff. They call this group Dumbledore's Army. Many students sign up, including Neville Longbottom, Fred and George Weasley, Ginny Weasley, and Luna Lovegood. The next day, however, they see on the notice board that Umbridge has banned all clubs she has not approved. Struggling to find a place to practice, Dobby the house elf tells him about the Room of Requirement and its uses. The club meets there to learn and practice defensive spells under Harry's instruction.

Meanwhile, Rubeus Hagrid has not yet returned from the secret mission Dumbledore gave him at the end of the previous book and is absent for the first part of the school year. Upon his return, Harry, Ron, and Hermione learn his mission, which was mostly unsuccessful, was to find the last giants and prevent their joining Lord Voldemort. Professor Umbridge has been steadily amassing more and more power and influence at the school, and as she begins regularly inspecting Hagrid's Care of Magical Creatures lessons, it is clear she intends to sack him.

One night, Harry dreams through the eyes of Voldemort's snake Nagini, who is possessed by Voldemort. Nagini attacks and seriously injures Arthur Weasley. Harry tells Professor McGonagall and Dumbledore, and Mr. Weasley is rescued. Dumbledore arranges for Harry to take Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape to protect his mind against further invasions by Voldemort.

Umbridge sacks Professor Trelawney, the Divination teacher, but she is outraged when Professor Dumbledore undermines her power by allowing Trelawney to continue living at the school and hiring Firenze, a centaur, to take her place, in spite of Umbridge's prejudice against part-humans. Soon after, Umbridge is given a tip-off about Dumbledore's Army by Marietta Edgecombe, a friend of Harry's crush Cho Chang. Marietta's betrayal unwittingly activates a curse set by Hermione that disfigures her face. Despite Dobby's warning, the gang are caught and get into trouble with Fudge. When Dumbledore takes responsibility for the illegal organisation, he is forced into hiding. Dolores Umbridge becomes headmistress, and Fred and George cause pandemonium around the school in revenge.

During one Occlumency lesson, Snape is called away. Harry, left alone, looks into Dumbledore's Pensieve, which Snape has borrowed, and sees a memory of Snape's time as a Hogwarts student. Harry is shocked to witness his father, James Potter, and Sirius bullying and humiliating Snape. Snape catches Harry and, enraged, refuses to continue his lessons. Distraught at this revelation of his father's character, Harry talks to Sirius and Lupin using Floo powder in the fireplace in Umbridge's office and learns more about his parents and their background. After helping Harry break into Umbridge's office, Fred and George leave Hogwarts to start a joke shop in Diagon Alley.

Suspecting he will be the next teacher Umbridge sacks, Hagrid confesses to Harry, Ron, and Hermione that he has brought his giant half-brother, Grawp, to Hogwarts and hidden him in the Forbidden Forest with the intention of eventually introducing him to human society. Hagrid asks the three of them to look after Grawp if he must leave the school. Sure enough, Umbridge leads a party of Aurors to attack Hagrid in his house one night. Hagrid overpowers them and flees the school. McGonagall, trying to disrupt the violence, is badly injured and put in St. Mungo's Hospital.

On the last day of O.W.L. exams, Harry has a vision of Sirius being tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries. Harry uses Umbridge's office fireplace to contact the Order of the Phoenix's headquarters and check whether the vision was genuine. Kreacher the house elf informs him Sirius is indeed at the Ministry just before Umbridge catches Harry and his friends. Umbridge summons Snape to provide Veritaserum to question Harry, but Snape claims to have no further stocks of the potion left. Remembering Snape is also a member of the Order, Harry gives him a cryptic warning about Sirius, but Snape claims to have not understood it.

Umbridge decides to use the illegal Cruciatus Curse on Harry to interrogate him about Sirius's whereabouts. She also reveals that she ordered the Dementor attack on Harry, intending to have him either silenced or discredited. Hermione intervenes, and in order to create a distraction, she convinces Umbridge they are hiding a weapon of Dumbledore's in the Forbidden Forest. Harry and Hermione lead her into an area of the forest inhabited by centaurs, where Umbridge provokes them into taking her captive. The centaurs are furious upon learning that Hermione used them to do her bidding and turn on the pair, but Grawp arrives and clashes with the centaurs, allowing Harry and Hermione to escape.

Luna, Ron, Ginny, and Neville join them in the forest, and all six fly to the Ministry on thestrals, expecting to find and rescue Sirius. Once in the Department of Mysteries, Harry realises his vision was falsely planted by Voldemort. However, he finds a glass sphere bearing his and Voldemort's names. Death Eaters led by Lucius Malfoy attack in order to capture the sphere, which is a recording of a prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort. The prophecy is revealed to be the object Voldemort has been trying to obtain the whole year because Voldemort believes he missed something when he first heard the prophecy. Lucius explains that only the subjects of prophecies (in this case, Harry or Voldemort) can remove them from the shelves. During a heated fight, Neville accidentally kicks and smashes the prophecy. Harry and his friends, soon joined by members of the Order, battle with the Death Eaters. During the fight, Bellatrix Lestrange kills Sirius. Voldemort himself arrives to kill Harry, but Dumbledore appears and engages in a ferocious duel with Voldemort, which eventually reaches a stalemate. Unable to kill Dumbledore, Voldemort tries to possess Harry in an attempt to get Dumbledore to kill Harry. Harry fights off the possession, and Voldemort escapes just as Fudge appears. Faced with firsthand evidence that Voldemort has returned, Fudge has no choice but to accept the truth.

In his office, Dumbledore explains that Snape understood Harry's cryptic warning and contacted Sirius to confirm he was still at Grimmauld Place. After Harry did not return from the Forbidden Forest, Snape deduced where he had gone and alerted the Order, enabling them to save Harry and his friends. Dumbledore reveals that during the Christmas holidays, Kreacher interpreted a command of Sirius's as an order to leave the house and went to Narcissa Malfoy, the wife of Lucius, and told her about Harry and Sirius's close relationship. Voldemort used Kreacher's information to lure Harry to the Department of Mysteries by planting the vision that Sirius was in danger there.

Owing Harry a full explanation, Dumbledore reveals the full contents of the prophecy made by Sybil Trelawney herself:

The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches
Born to those who have thrice defied him
Born as the seventh month dies
And the Dark Lord shall mark him as his equal
But he will have power the Dark Lord knows not
And either must die at the hand of the other
For neither can live while the other survives
The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord
Will be born as the seventh month dies
Voldemort learned of the first part of the prophecy and subsequently tried to murder Harry, believing he could prevent the prophecy from coming true and unaware he would grant Harry great power and mark him as an equal by doing so. Dumbledore tells Harry he must stay with the Dursleys for one last summer because, by taking Harry into her home, Aunt Petunia, Lily's older sister, seals the protection Harry's mother afforded him when she died. As long as he is at Number Four, Privet Drive, he is safe from Voldemort and his followers.

Harry comes to terms with the responsibility of the prophecy but mourns the loss of his godfather. Harry then finds an old handheld mirror in his dormitory that was a gift from Sirius. He realises Sirius would not want him to be depressed on the matter and resolves to keep fighting Voldemort.






Severus Snape, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, meets with Narcissa Malfoy, Draco's mother, and her sister Bellatrix Lestrange, Lord Voldemort's faithful supporter. Narcissa expresses her concern that her son might not survive a dangerous mission given him by Lord Voldemort. Bellatrix feels Snape will be of no help until he surprises her by making an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa, swearing on his life that he will protect and assist Draco in his mission.

Dumbledore picks Harry up from his aunt and uncle's house, intending to escort him to the Burrow, the home of Harry's best friend Ron and his large family. On the way, they make a detour to the temporary home of Horace Slughorn, former Potions teacher at Hogwarts, and Harry unwittingly helps persuade Slughorn to return to teach. Harry and Dumbledore then proceed to the Burrow, where Hermione has already arrived.

The next morning, Harry, Ron, and Hermione get their O.W.L. exam results, along with lists of school supplies. Harry's letter reveals that he has been made captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione follow Draco to Dark Arts artifacts supplier Borgin and Burke's in Knockturn Alley. Harry is suspicious of Draco, who he believes has become a Death Eater following the arrest of his father Lucius.

On the Hogwarts Express, Harry discusses his suspicions of Draco's allegiance to Lord Voldemort, but Ron and Hermione are doubtful because of Harry's lack of evidence. Harry dons his invisibility cloak and hides in the same carriage in which Malfoy is seated. He overhears Draco bragging to his friends about the mission Lord Voldemort has given him. However, Malfoy suspects someone else is in the carriage and discovers Harry was listening to his conversation. Malfoy petrifies Harry and breaks his nose out of rage. Harry cannot get out of the carriage, and he is worried the Hogwarts Express will depart before he can move again. To his relief, Nymphadora Tonks finds Harry and escorts him to the castle during the opening feast.

The students return to school, where Dumbledore announces Snape will be teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts. Dumbledore also announces Horace Slughorn will resume his previous post as Potions master. Harry now excels in Potions, thanks to having received a used Potions textbook that once belonged to someone named "The Half-Blood Prince," a mysterious former student who wrote numerous tips and spells in the book that sometimes contradict the written text. Harry uses this information to achieve superb results. During a class contest, The Half-Blood Prince's tips help Harry win a bottle of Felix Felicis, more commonly known as "Liquid Luck." Though Harry's success pleases Slughorn, his newfound brilliance in potions angers Hermione, who feels he is not truly earning his grades and also does not trust the Half-Blood Prince.

Believing Harry needs to learn Voldemort's past to gain an advantage in a foretold battle, Dumbledore schedules regular meetings with Harry in his office. Dumbledore and Harry use Dumbledore's Pensieve to look at the memories of those who have had direct contact with Voldemort. Harry learns about Voldemort's family and his foe's evolution into a murderer obsessed not only with power but with gaining eternal life. Dumbledore shows Harry a memory involving Slughorn conversing with a young Tom Riddle at Hogwarts. The memory has clearly been tampered with. Dumbledore sets Harry the task of convincing Slughorn to give him the true memory so Dumbledore can confirm his suspicions about Voldemort's rise to power and near-invincibility.

Meanwhile, security tightens around the wizarding world now that everyone believes Voldemort has returned. Some people get murdered by Death Eaters. Harry finds several bits of proof that make him even more suspicious of Draco.

A few months later, after receiving an invitation to the funeral for Aragog the Acromantula, Harry uses an hour's dose of Felix Felicis and succeeds in retrieving Slughorn's unedited memory while at the funeral. Harry presents the memory to Dumbledore, and they watch it together. In it, Slughorn tells Riddle about the process of splitting one's soul and hiding it in several objects called Horcruxes. Only by committing a murder can a wizard turn an object into a Horcrux. Dumbledore tells Harry he suspects Voldemort has created six Horcruxes, making himself virtually immortal by placing a piece of his soul in each one and keeping the seventh within his body. Dumbledore explains that, in order to destroy Voldemort, all the Horcruxes must first be destroyed. Two Horcruxes, Riddle's diary from Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and a ring belonging to Voldemort's grandfather Marvolo Gaunt, have already been destroyed, but four others remain.

As Harry learns more about his great enemy, the love lives of the main characters become more active. Ron and Hermione grow closer together, but after learning from his sister Ginny that Hermione had previously kissed Viktor Krum, Ron is angered and shuns her. Harry attempts to repair things between the two but fails, resulting in Ron going out with Lavender Brown and making Hermione jealous. After Ron is nearly killed in an attempt on Dumbledore's life, he and Hermione reconcile. Ron and Lavender break up when Lavender sees the two of them walking out of the boys' dormitory together while Harry was under his father's Invisibility Cloak. Harry develops deep feelings for Ginny but is reluctant to pursue her for most of the year because of his friendship with Ron. Following a wild Gryffindor Quidditch victory, Harry and Ginny finally strike up a relationship of which Ron reluctantly approves.

Near the end of the year, Harry and Dumbledore journey to a remote cave far from Hogwarts to retrieve a suspected Horcrux, Slytherin's locket. Dumbledore finds a secret passageway to a large, pitch-black underground lake, which Harry and Dumbledore cross in a small boat to an island at the centre. The locket is at the bottom of a basin on the island and can only be reached if someone drinks the potion concealing it. Harry aids Dumbledore, who drinks the potion, which causes him to experience vivid hallucinations and torturous pain. Though Dumbledore is severely weakened after finishing the potion, the two manage to fight off Voldemort's Inferi that have been hiding in the lake. They take the locket and return to Hogwarts to find the Dark Mark hovering over the school's Astronomy Tower. Harry and Dumbledore ascend to the tower, where they are ambushed by Draco Malfoy, who is accompanied by Death Eaters he helped get inside Hogwarts. Dumbledore subdues Harry under his Invisibility Cloak with a freezing spell to keep him hidden. At the same time, Draco disarms Dumbledore and then threatens to kill him, which turns out to have been Draco's mission from Voldemort all along. Draco is unable to go through with it, and when Snape arrives, he kills Dumbledore instead. Harry ignores the battle raging in Hogwarts to pursue Dumbledore's killer. Snape successfully fights Harry off, and he reveals that he is the Half-Blood Prince before he, Draco, and the rest of the Death Eaters escape.

After Dumbledore's funeral, Harry decides to break up with Ginny, saying she would be in danger should their relationship continue. Later, Harry finds out the locket is not the real Horcrux. The fake Horcrux contains a note from someone named "R.A.B.". Harry is devastated by Dumbledore's death, and he tells his friends he will not return to Hogwarts. Instead, he says he will spend the next year searching out Voldemort's Horcruxes. Ron and Hermione insist on joining him in destroying Lord Voldemort for good.






Throughout the six previous novels in the series, the main character Harry Potter has struggled with the difficulties of adolescence along with being famous as the only person ever to survive the Killing Curse, Avada Kedavra. What the wizarding community found most impressive was that he was just a baby when this curse was inflicted. The curse was cast by the evil Tom Riddle, better known as Lord Voldemort, a powerful evil wizard who murdered Harry's parents and attempted to kill Harry as a baby in the belief this would frustrate a prophecy that Harry would become his equal. Lord Voldemort had not heard the full prophecy, so he did not know attacking Harry Potter would transfer power to him. As an orphan, Harry was placed in the care of his Muggle (non-magical) relatives Petunia Dursley and Vernon Dursley.

In The Philosopher's Stone, Harry re-enters the wizarding world at age 11 and enrolls in Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He makes friends with fellow students Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger and is mentored by the school's headmaster, Albus Dumbledore. He also meets Professor Severus Snape, who intensely dislikes and bullies him. Harry fights Voldemort several times while at school as the wizard tries to regain a physical form. In Goblet of Fire, Harry is mysteriously entered in a dangerous magical competition called the Triwizard Tournament, which he discovers is a trap designed to allow the return of Lord Voldemort to full strength. During Order of the Phoenix, Harry and several of his friends face off against Voldemort's Death Eaters, a group of Dark witches and wizards, and narrowly defeat them. In Half-Blood Prince, Harry learns that Voldemort has divided his soul into several parts, creating "Horcruxes" from various unknown objects to contain them. In this way, he has ensured his immortality as long as at least one of the Horcruxes still exists.[3] Two of these had already been destroyed: a diary destroyed by Harry in Chamber of Secrets and a ring destroyed by Dumbledore shortly before the events of Half-Blood Prince. Dumbledore takes Harry along in the attempt to destroy a third Horcrux contained in a locket. However, the Horcrux had been taken by an unknown wizard, and upon their return, Dumbledore is ambushed and disarmed by Draco Malfoy, although Draco cannot bring himself to kill Dumbledore. Dumbledore is subsequently killed by Snape, who finishes what Malfoy started.

Following Albus Dumbledore's death, Voldemort consolidates support and power, including by attempting to take control of the Ministry of Magic. Meanwhile, Harry is about to turn seventeen, at which time he will lose the protection of his home. Members of the Order of the Phoenix explain the situation to the Dursleys and move them to a new location for protection. Using several of Harry's peers and friends as decoys, the Order plans to move Harry to the Burrow under protection. Due to perceived infiltration of communication by the Death Eaters, members of the Order decide that Harry must be flown to the Burrow. However, the Death Eaters have been tipped off about this plan, and the group is attacked upon departure. In the ensuing battle, "Mad-Eye" Moody and Hedwig are killed and George Weasley severely wounded. Voldemort himself arrives to kill Harry, but Harry's wand fends him off of its own.

At the Burrow, Harry, Ron, and Hermione make preparations to abandon Hogwarts and hunt down Voldemort's four remaining Horcruxes but have few clues as to their identities and locations. They also inherit strange bequests from among Dumbledore's possessions: a Golden Snitch for Harry, a Deluminator for Ron, and a book of short tales collectively called The Tales of Beedle the Bard for Hermione. During Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, the Ministry of Magic finally falls to Voldemort, with a Death Eater assuming the position of Minister for Magic, and the wedding is attacked by Death Eaters. Harry, Ron, and Hermione flee to 12 Grimmauld Place in London, the family home of Sirius Black that Harry inherited a year before.

Harry and Hermione continue the quest for the Horcruxes, discovering more about Dumbledore's past, including the death of Dumbledore's younger sister and his connection to the dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald. They travel to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace, and meet the elderly magical historian Bathilda Bagshot. However, they discover that the real Bathilda has been killed, and it is instead Nagini in disguise. The snake attacks, and they barely escape to Forest of Dean, but Harry's wand is damaged beyond repair in the fight. A mysterious silver doe Patronus guides Harry to a pond containing the Sword of Hogwarts co-founder Godric Gryffindor, one of the few objects able to destroy Horcruxes. When Harry tries to recover the sword, the locket Horcrux tries to kill him. Ron, who was guided back to Harry and Hermione by the Deluminator, saves him and destroys the locket using the sword.

Hermione identifies in Dumbledore's book a symbol also worn at Bill and Fleur's wedding by Xenophilius Lovegood, the father of fellow Hogwarts student Luna Lovegood. They visit Xenophilius and are told the symbol represents the mythical Deathly Hallows, three objects from an old fairy tale titled The Tale of the Three Brothers: the Elder Wand, an unbeatable wand; the Resurrection Stone, which is able to summon the dead; and an infallible Invisibility Cloak. After noticing inconsistencies in his behavior, however, the trio realise that Xenophilius is stalling to allow Death Eaters to catch Harry, in exchange for his daughter Luna Lovegood's freedom. After a near miss, the three analyze the information provided by Xenophilius. Although Ron and Hermione are skeptical, Harry believes the Hallows are real and suspects Voldemort is hunting the Elder Wand, believing it to be in Dumbledore's possession after defeating Grindelwald. The description of the third Hallow also matches that of his own inherited Invisibility Cloak.

The trio are captured by Snatchers and taken to Malfoy Manor. Ron and Harry are imprisoned, and Bellatrix tortures Hermione, believing they stole Gryffindor's sword from her vault at Gringotts. With the help of Dobby the house-elf, they escape to Bill and Fleur's house along with fellow prisoners Luna Lovegood, wandmaker Mr. Ollivander, Dean Thomas, and the goblin Griphook. During the escape, Peter Pettigrew is strangled by his own silver hand after Harry reminds him of his debts, and Dobby is killed by Bellatrix. At Bill and Fleur's, they devise a plan to break into Bellatrix's vault at Gringotts, believing another Horcrux to be hidden there as well. While there, Harry's suspicions are confirmed when he has a vision of Voldemort breaking open Dumbledore's tomb and stealing the Elder Wand. With Griphook's help, they succeed in breaking in, retrieving Hufflepuff's golden cup, and escape on a dragon that was guarding Bellatrix's vault. In the chaos, Griphook steals the Sword of Gryffindor from them. Harry has another vision of Voldemort and sees that Voldemort now understands their plan and intends to protect the Horcruxes even further but also confirms the unidentified Horcrux is at Hogwarts.

They enter the school through a secret entrance in the Hog's Head, a bar in Hogsmeade owned by Dumbledore's brother Aberforth. Harry alerts the teachers that Voldemort is planning an assault on the school, and they mobilize the student body to defend Hogwarts and buy Harry time to locate the Horcrux. After speaking with the ghost of Ravenclaw, Rowena Ravenclaw's daughter, Harry confirms that the Horcrux is Ravenclaw's lost diadem, and he recalls such a diadem being hidden in the Room of Requirement. Meanwhile, Ron and Hermione destroy Hufflepuff's cup with basilisk fangs taken from the Chamber of Secrets as Voldemort and his army besiege the castle. They find the diadem but are ambushed by Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle. Crabbe tries to kill them using Fiendfyre, a cursed fire, but is unable to control it; the fire destroys the diadem and kills Crabbe. Meanwhile, many are killed in the Battle of Hogwarts, including Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, Colin Creevey, and Fred Weasley.

In his encampment, Voldemort feels the Elder Wand is not performing as he expected. Reasoning that Snape, having killed Dumbledore is the true owner of the Elder Wand, Voldemort murders Snape. Harry arrives as Snape is dying, and Snape passes him memories to view in the Pensieve. They reveal Snape had a lifelong love for Harry's mother, and despite hating Harry's father, he agreed at Dumbledore's request to act as a double agent against Voldemort. He had been watching over the trio as they searched for the Horcruxes, conjuring the doe Patronus. It is also revealed that Dumbledore was slowly dying after mishandling the ring Horcrux, and his "murder" by Snape was planned to prove Snape's allegiance to Voldemort. The memories also explain that Harry himself is a Horcrux, and therefore he must die at Voldemort's hands if Voldemort is to become mortal, which Voldemort does not know. Harry accepts his death and gives himself up to Voldemort, telling Neville Longbottom that Voldemort's snake Nagini, another Horcrux, must be killed. On the way, he finally manages to open the Snitch and uses the Resurrection Stone within to seek comfort and courage from his dead loved ones. Voldemort uses the Killing Curse, and Harry does not defend himself.

Harry awakens in a dreamlike location resembling King's Cross station and is greeted by Dumbledore. He explains that Voldemort's original Killing Curse left a fragment of Voldemort's soul in Harry, which caused the connection they felt and made Harry an unintended Horcrux. The fragment had been destroyed by the Killing Curse, allowing Harry the choice to return to life or to "go on." Dumbledore also admits some of his mysterious history, in which his friendship with Gellert Grindelwald resulted in the murder of his younger sister Ariana and estrangement from Aberforth. Harry chooses to return to life and feigns death. Voldemort calls for a truce at Hogwarts and displays Harry's body, offering to spare most of the defenders if they surrender. Neville, however, pulls the Sword of Gryffindor out of the Sorting Hat and uses it to behead Nagini, leaving Voldemort unprotected by Horcruxes.

Harry escapes under his cloak as the battle resumes. In a final onslaught, Bellatrix is killed by Molly Weasley by using the blast to oblivion spell, and Harry reveals himself to Voldemort. He explains to Voldemort the Elder Wand's loyalty transfers upon the defeat, not necessarily the killing, of its previous master. Harry also reveals that Snape had never been the Elder Wand's master because Draco Malfoy had disarmed Dumbledore before Snape arrived to kill him, and Harry had disarmed Draco at Malfoy Manor weeks prior. Voldemort attempts one final Killing Curse on Harry, but the Elder Wand refuses to act against its true master and the spell rebounds, killing Voldemort. Harry uses the Elder Wand to repair his original wand, intending to return the Elder Wand to Dumbledore's tomb, where its power will vanish if Harry dies undefeated. However, he plans to keep the Invisibility Cloak he inherited. The wizarding world returns to peace once more.

In an epilogue set in King's Cross station 19 years later, the primary characters are seeing their own children off to Hogwarts. Harry and Ginny have three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. Ron and Hermione also have two children, Rose and Hugo. Harry's godson Teddy Lupin is found kissing Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's daughter Victoire; Neville Longbottom is now a Hogwarts professor; and Draco Malfoy and his wife are also at the station to send off their son, Scorpius. Albus is departing for his first year at Hogwarts and worries he will be placed in Slytherin House. Harry reassures him by telling his son he is named after two Hogwarts headmasters, one of them a Slytherin and "the bravest man he had ever met," and that the Sorting Hat could also take account of personal preferences as it did for Harry. Harry also notes that his scar has not hurt in nineteen years and all is well.
